 
•	 UPDATE 1-Clorox second-quarter net down on sales  decline .
•	 Clorox second-quarter net down on sales  decline .
•	 Amazon Cuts Jobs, Posts Sales  Warning  --- `Core' Segments Are Slower, But Retailer Promises Operating  Profit  Soon
•	  UPS Posts Increase In Profit of 9.5%, Exceeds Forecasts 
•	  UPDATE:Intershop Stock Slides As 2001 Targets Disappoint 
•	  Intershop Stock Slides As 2001 Targets Disappoint Market 
•	 Chartered Semicon Shares Rise 15% On Hopes Of US Rate  Cut
•	 ADR REPORT - Latin ADRs up on expected Fed rate  cut .
•	  Alcatel seen easing 2001 outlook after strong 2000. 
•	  AFTER THE BELL - Applied Materials, Adobe slip. 
•	  UPDATE 3-Motorola withdrawal savages Psion. 
•	  Rohm and Haas profits fall. 
•	  Gillette Reports Loss for Fourth Period, Backs Away From Short-Term Guidance 
•	  Parthus `close' to GPRS solution. 
•	  J.B. Hunt Posts 95% Increase in 4th-Quarter Net Income, Beating Estimates 
•	  Business Europe: Unlocking 3M's Potential  
•	 Fish or  Cut  Bait: Ticker symbol tango <b>Fish or  Cut  Bait:</b> ETrade Group's stock surged after the company announced that it was moving from the Nasdaq to the New York Stock Exchange. But ETrade is still an onl...
•	  Tribune Q4 earnings fall as ad market softens. 
•	  UPDATE 3-Tribune Q4 earnings fall as ad market softens. 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-CSFB downgrades PMC Sierra. 
•	  Dow profits drop, warns about outlook. 
•	  Evening Standard, London, Stock Markets Column 
•	  Tribune Posts 69% Drop in 4th-Quarter Net But Beats Reduced Expectations 
•	  Eastman Chemical Warns of 'Challenging' 2001 After Posting 4th-Quarter Profit 
•	  NRF 2001 Convention - Home Depot profits hit. 
•	  EMI OFF-KEY AS PROBE INTO CD PRICES LOOMS 
•	 BRIDGE TOP NEWS NOW - MOF says U" slowdown may  cut  Japan growth.
•	 BRIDGE TOP NEWS NOW - Miyazawa says US slowdown may  cut  Japan ...
•	  BRIDGE TOP NEWS NOW - Qualcomm may cancel chip-unit spinoff. 
•	  Sony halves its profit estimates. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Furniture Brands posts lower Q4, warns on Q1. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Dow Jones has Q4 loss on Bridge investment. 
•	  UPDATE 3-Dow profits drop, warns about outlook. 
•	  UPDATE 4-Dow profits drop, warns about outlook. 
•	 Lucent to  cut  as many as 16,000 jobs News comes as it reports $1 billion loss
•	  MONEYLINE; CNNfn 
•	  Companies: Compaq Posts A Net Loss In Quarter --- Earnings Rise, Meeting Lowered Expectations 
•	  Israeli stocks halt skid with late session bounce. 
•	  Europe Stock Focus: ECI Seen Risky Despite Restructure 
•	 EARTHGRAINS TAKES A HIT FROM STRIKE, ENERGY PRICES; BAKING COMPANY HERE LOSES $400,000 IN QUARTER  
•	  Polaroid Finance Chief Boynton Resigns, Company to Search for Replacement 
•	 Ireland's Jittery Giants   
•	  Heavyweights lead market slide. 
•	  Lucent plans up to 16,000 job cuts, reports disappointing results again 
•	  Lucent plans up to 16,000 job cuts, reports quarterly loss 
•	  Lucent plans up to 16,000 job cuts, reports quarterly loss 
•	  Lucent plans up to 16,000 job cuts, reports quarterly loss 
•	  Lucent plans up to 16,000 job cuts, reports quarterly loss 
•	  UPDATE 3-Coke bottler posts small profit, shares rally. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Coca-Cola bottler posts small profit. 
•	  INTERVIEW-ECI Telecom sees IPO delay for demerged companies. 
•	  Chartered Q4 profit seen meeting forecasts. 
•	 Dell issues  profit warning .
•	 SCI's 2nd-Quarter Earnings Hit Target, Firm Issues  Profit Warning
•	  EGL Issues 4th-Quarter Warning; Laid Off 300 Workers Last Week 
•	 Israel's Koor Down More Than 4% On 2nd ECI  Profit Warning
•	  Compaq Puts 2001 Rev Growth At 6%-8% 
•	  MARKET TALK: Compaq 4Q Looks Good; Backs '01 EPS Growth 
•	  MARKET TALK: LSI Hits 4Q, 1Q Will Be Shy; Does It Matter? 
•	  MARKET TALK: Wring An Extra Two Bucks Out Of Dynegy 
•	  MARKET TALK: CIBC Continues To Like Tellabs 
•	  MARKET TALK: S&P Sees Stability In Telecom Ratings By 2002 
•	 Stock market dips as investors take profits
•	 STOCKS SLIP ON PROFIT-TAKING
•	 Profit -taking pushes market slightly lower Dell earnings  warning  creates little change
•	 Dell says its earnings will not meet forecasts
•	  MARKET TALK: Abercrombie Gets Street's Vote Of Confidence 
•	  Stock markets slip amid profit-taking 
•	 Markets Dell's  Profit Warning  Weighs Down Nasdaq
•	  Chicago Tribune Market Report Column  
•	 Stocks fall afer Dell's  profit warning
•	 Companies: Home Depot Issues Earnings  Warning  For Fourth Quarter --- Three-Month  Profit  Is Down For the 1st Time in 15 Years
•	  Technology Journal: Unisys Earnings in Quarter Met Lowered Estimate 
•	 ADC shares continue to fall on  profit warning .
•	  WRAPUP-U.S. stocks fall after Dell warns, bonds slip. 
•	  Toronto stocks lower at midday on sluggish techs. 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-Robertson Stephens cuts ADC Telecoms. 
•	  Home Depot Warns of Earnings Shortfall 
•	  Despite Spending Fears, Quarter To Be Good For Fiber Cos 
•	  MARKET TALK: Advisor CSFB Reinstates Buy On MarchFirst 
•	  N.Y. Stocks End Scantily Lower; Low-Hanging Fruit Picked 
•	  BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - US stocks lower. 
•	 BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - Europe stocks make  cautious  start.
•	 BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - Europe stocks m+-ke  cautious  start.
•	  BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - Euro dips to 5-day low vs. dollar. 
•	  News Briefs 
•	  Microsoft's Second-Quarter Results Meet Lowered Earnings Forecasts --- Net Profit Rises 7% as Revenue Slightly Beats Expectations...
•	  Home Depot Issues Warning for Earnings --- Big Retailer Blames Shortfall on U.S. Economy 
•	  Unisys' Quarterly Profit Meets Lowered Forecast ---- Slowing Economy May Affect Current Period 
•	  Wall St Week Ahead - Stocks keep humming a happy tune. 
•	  SMARTMONEY.COM: Buying Into Bad News 
•	  BUSINESS DIGEST 
•	  Microsoft's gentle profit gain. 
•	 O.C. BUSINESS PLUS  Profit  Report Sends ICN Stock Down 16% Pharmaceuticals: The $4.44 drop follows Costa Mesa drug maker's  warning  of lower-than-expected earnings.
•	  Technology Journal: AMD's Net Rises but Misses Target --- Chip Maker's Sales Grow Less Than Expected as Demand for PCs Slows --- Company...
•	  Today's complete oil and gas news briefing 
•	  Techs drive U.S. stocks in Europe, Wall St seen up. 
•	  UPDATE 4-Microsoft profits on target but warns on Q3. 
•	 UPDATE 1-ADC Telecom falls sharply on  profit warning .
•	  WRAPUP-U.S. blue-chip stocks and bonds fall, oil above $32. 



 UPDATE 1-Clorox second-quarter net down on sales  decline . 

322 words
31 January 2001
13:01
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 OAKLAND, Calif., Jan 31 (Reuters) - Household products maker Clorox Co. on Wednesday said net income fell 7.5 percent, before special charges, in line with its recent warning, as sales declined across many of the company's product lines. 

 The Oakland, Calif.-based maker of Clorox bleach, Glad plastic bags and Kingsford charcoal, said net income was $74 million, or 31 cents a share, before the charges, compared with $80 million, or 33 cents a share, a year ago. 

 Analysts on average forecast earnings of 30 cents a share, according to market research firm First Call/Thomson Financial, though the average estimate was 38 cents a share before the company issued a profit warning in December. 

 At that time, the company also said it would take $150 million to $200 million in one-time charges in calendar year 2001 as a result of actions to enhance margins and asset utilization. Clorox said it would streamline manufacturing in order to cope with strains from its $2 billion acquisition of First Brands and slowing markets. 

 In the second quarter, unit volume dropped 2 percent, while sales fell 6 percent to $899 million. The drop in sales came as customers shifted away from higher priced products, while the company also took higher reserves to cover products it could not sell. In December, the company said it would write down inventory for a home dry-cleaning product and a premium Black Flag insect spray that had not sold as well as planned. 

 Foreign currency weakness also cut into sales. About 17 percent of the company's sales came from outside the United States. 

 Weakness in Brita water filtration, Glad plastic bags, Kingsford charcoal and cat litter all dragged down sales. 

 Clorox shares closed Tuesday at $33.15. The stock has trailed the Standard & Poor's 500 Index by about 30 percent over the past year. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1v07cw9




 Clorox second-quarter net down on sales  decline . 

160 words
31 January 2001
12:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 OAKLAND, Calif., Jan 31 (Reuters) - Consumer products company Clorox Co. on Wednesday said net income fell 7.5 percent, before special charges, in the fiscal second quarter, on a decline in revenues and sales volumes. 

 The Oakland, Calif.-based maker of Clorox Bleach, Glad plastic bags and Hidden Valley Ranch salad dressing, said net income was $74 million, or 31 cents a share, before the charges, compared to $80 million, or 33 cents a share, a year ago. 

 Analysts on average forecast earnings of 30 cents a share, according to market research firm First Call/Thomson Financial, though the average estimate was 38 cents a share before the company issued a December profit warning. 

 At that time, the company said demand had been sluggish in the quarter. 

 Clorox shares closed Tuesday at $33.15. The stock has trailed the Standard & Poors 500 Index by about 30 percent over the past year. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1v07crf




 Amazon Cuts Jobs, Posts Sales  Warning  --- `Core' Segments Are Slower, But Retailer Promises Operating  Profit  Soon 

 By Nick Wingfield 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
1,164 words
31 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Amazon.com Inc., under intense pressure to prove it can reverse its history of steep losses, said it would post its first pro-forma operating profit by year end, aided in part by a planned 15% cut in work force and the closure of two facilities. 

 But, overshadowing that news, which also included a wider net loss and slightly better-than-expected fourth-quarter operating results, was a drastic slowdown in the growth of the company's core retailing businesses. And Amazon warned that sales for all of 2001 will likely be between 10% and 17% lower than its earlier forecasts. 

 Announcing its results after the close of regular trading, Amazon, based in Seattle, said it had a net loss of $545.1 million, or $1.53 a share, wider than $323.2 million, or 96 cents a share, a year earlier. 

 Amazon stock had fallen $1.19, or 5.9%, to $18.94 by 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, and shares continued to fall to $18.13 in after-hours trading. 

 Excluding goodwill charges, losses on investments in Internet companies and other one-time items, Amazon had a pro-forma loss of $90.4 million, or 25 cents a share, compared with $184.9 million, or 55 cents a share, a year earlier. The results were a penny better than the 26-cents-a-share pro-forma loss expected by a consensus of 27 analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial Corp. 

 Amazon had already taken some of the mystery out of its holiday-season performance earlier this month, when it estimated preliminary fourth-quarter sales of $960 million, a figure that missed most analysts' targets while barely exceeding the low end of Amazon's forecasts for the period. While still at the low end, Amazon said yesterday, its sales during the holidays were actually $972.4 million, up 44% from $676 million a year earlier. 

 Meanwhile, confirming rumors that had circled around the company for weeks, Amazon announced the broadest layoffs in its history, saying it would slash 1,300 jobs from its corporate staff. Amazon has about 8,500 employees world-wide. 

 After spending aggressively in 1999 to build an empire of warehouses across the U.S., Amazon said it will close one of those facilities in McDonough, Ga., and begin to operate another, in Seattle, only seasonally. Amazon also said it will shutter its Seattle customer-service center, a move that immediately provoked disappointment from union representatives who had been trying organize Amazon employees at that facility. 

 Warren Jenson, Amazon's chief financial officer, said the decision to close the customer-service center was unrelated to the union activity in Seattle. Mr. Jenson said the layoffs across the company were "painful but extremely necessary" for Amazon to achieve profitability and long-term success. 

 The company said it would take a charge in excess of $150 million in the first half of 2001 to cover the restructuring. 

 Analysts welcomed the first solid promise from Amazon to achieve some form of profitability by a specific date, even if it is a profit that excludes investment gains and losses, goodwill and other items. 

 "It's nice that they've put a stake in the sand," said Henry Blodget, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Co. "We have been a believer for a long time that this company could turn a profit, but there have been plenty of people who thought we were hallucinating." 

 Yet analysts expressed concern over an unexpectedly steep slowdown in the growth of Amazon's core "media" business: books, music and videos. 

 In 2000, fourth-quarter books, music and video sales in the U.S. grew only 11% from a year earlier, compared with 82% fourth-quarter growth between 1999 and 1998. "It's just anemic," said Mark Rowen, an analyst at Prudential Securities. 

 Amazon said media sales declined this year, in part, because some overseas Amazon shoppers purchased from newly opened versions of Amazon in other countries rather than the U.S. version of the site. Including those customers, Amazon said, sales of books, music and videos would have grown by 24% in the fourth quarter. 

 In the media business, Amazon said, gross margins -- the percentage of revenue represented by its raw profit after paying suppliers -- jumped to 27% from 17% last year. That was a sharp improvement, but one that left analysts such as Lauren Cooks Levitan of Robertson Stephens less impressed, since Amazon's media business is a declining percentage of the company's overall sales. 

 Amazon's Mr. Jenson said the company was the victim of a broad slowdown in consumer spending this quarter, but noted that it had strong growth in its newer businesses, such as electronics, kitchen and hardware "stores." "We have deliberately made choices to balance profitability with growth," Mr. Jenson said. Sales from Amazon's nonmedia businesses, which it classifies as "early stage," doubled in the fourth quarter to $315.8 million from $145.2 million a year earlier. 

 That growth figure is somewhat misleading, however, since Amazon is constantly adding new product categories to its early-stage businesses. The company doesn't release "same store" sales figures, as many retailers do, so that Wall Street can assess the performance of individual categories such as consumer electronics. Amazon would say only that $74 million of its early-stage business sales came from advertising relationships with other Internet companies. Excluding that figure, Amazon's sales of actual products were a more modest $241.8 million in its early-stage business. 

 Amazon pulled back from earlier revenue forecasts for 2001: The company expects sales will grow between 20% and 30% compared with 2000 sales, which translates to sales of $3.31 billion and $3.59 billion. Amazon earlier called for $4 billion in sales for 2000. 

 Amazon said it ended the year with more than $1.1 billion in cash and marketable securities in its coffers, though the company expects that number to decline to $650 million at the end of the first quarter, once it has made payments to its suppliers. 

 Amazon said it expected to have more than $900 million in cash and marketable securities at the end of 2001. Although it left open the possibility that it might try to raise more money to strengthen its balance sheet or to give it "strategic flexibility," the company said it wouldn't need to raise additional capital to fund its business. 

 The company's net loss for all of 2000 was $1.41 billion, or $4.02 a share, compared with $720 million, or $2.20 a share, in 1999. Full-year revenue rose 68% to $2.76 billion. 

 --- 

 Journal Link: See a video report of Amazon Chairman and CEO Jeff Bezos discussing the company's results, in the online Journal at WSJ.com. 

Document j000000020010711dx1v00277




 Marketing & Media 
 UPS Posts Increase In Profit of 9.5%, Exceeds Forecasts 

 By Rick Brooks 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
518 words
31 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal
J
B7
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 ATLANTA -- United Parcel Service Inc. said profit rose 9.5% to beat lowered expectations for the fourth quarter, but scaled back previously announced growth targets for this year due to the sagging economy. 

 The results, a far cry from the 22% profit increase UPS had reported in the third quarter, show how significantly the economy has slowed. The parcel-delivery giant carries roughly 5% of the country's economic output at any moment and is feeling the fallout as companies trim their shipment volumes. 

 Net income at UPS grew to $724 million, or 63 cents a diluted share, helped by a lower income-tax rate that added $34 million to the bottom line and strong growth in international shipments. In the 1999 fourth quarter, UPS had earnings of $661 million, or 56 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected a per-share profit of about 61 cents a share. UPS also came within a whisker of meeting loftier forecasts made just before the company issued a profit warning in mid-December. 

 Still, UPS was unable to recover from the Christmas shopping season's lackluster start, and domestic shipment volume in December wound up flat compared with a year earlier. UPS also failed to reach its goal of delivering more than 325 million packages world-wide during the month-long peak delivery period between Thanksgiving and Christmas, but officials declined to say by how much. 

 As a result, revenue climbed only 6.1% to $7.9 billion in the quarter -- or about half its average quarterly rate in the first nine months of 2000. While the volume of U.S. shipments has picked up since then, rising 2% to 3% in January, UPS said that isn't necessarily evidence of a rebound. "We're not quite sure what to make of it," said D. Scott Davis, UPS's chief financial officer. 

 Facing the likelihood of only modest economic growth through at least the first half of 2001, UPS lowered its per-share earnings-growth target to 9% to 11%. While that keeps UPS in line with the projections of most analysts, the company had been hoping profit would climb at a percentage rate in the "mid-teens." UPS now expects revenue to increase 8% to 10%, down from its previous target of 10%. 

 Analysts generally praised UPS for its record fourth-quarter profit despite the economic headwind. Some analysts worry UPS could miss even its lowered targets unless the economy picks up steam in coming months. Peter Coleman, an analyst at the Banc of America Securities LLP unit of Bank of America Corp., said he believes UPS may still be overly optimistic about an uptick in the economy in the year's second half. "I don't know if there is a lot of data to support that," Mr. Coleman said. 

 UPS shares were up 80 cents at $61.60 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m. 

Document j000000020010711dx1v0026v




 UPDATE:Intershop Stock Slides As 2001 Targets Disappoint 

769 words
31 January 2001
18:05
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   (This story updates an article that ran at around 1322 GMT,
    adding CFO comments from an analyst conference call)
   By Chris Reiter
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES


 BERLIN -(Dow Jones)- Europe's top electronic commerce software company Intershop Communications AG (ISHP) Wednesday disappointed with low targets for 2001, causing investors to dump the stock yet again. 

 The company expects 2001 revenues of between EUR140 million and EUR160 million compared with analysts' expectations of EUR180 million to EUR200 million. Intershop anticipates first-quarter revenues to be flat, with growth picking up in the second half, said Chief Financial Officer Wilfried Beeck at an analyst conference call. 

 But concerns about Intershop's ability to succeed in the lucrative U.S. market are weighing on sentiment although the company says it aims to be profitable by the end of the year. 

 "The low end (of revenue forecasts) is only 13%-14% sales growth, and that's pretty low for a company of this kind," said BNP Paribas' Alex Ryshawy who rates Intershop at neutral. "It's a lot lower than what competitors expect." 

 Based on the weak outlook and no new signs of the company turning around its struggling U.S. operations, investors sold the shares, which at 1738 GMT had fallen 20% to EUR9.65. 

 "At these levels, a lot of bad news is priced in, but we still see risk on their turnaround plan," added Ryshawy. 

 Commenting on the 2001 targets, a London-based analyst with Schroder Salomon Smith Barney, which rates the company a hold said: "The main concern is the guidance for 2001. It's below what most people were expecting." 

 Intershop was one of the new economy's leading lights until shocking investors with a profit warning at the beginning of the year that saw shares slide 70%. The warning revealed that its strong position in Europe wasn't translating into success in the lucrative North American market. 

 The company says it expects a net loss for 2001 of around the EUR39.3 million it lost last year but it expects to achieve profitability on a quarterly basis by the end of the year. 

 Intershop reported 2000 revenues of EUR123 million, up from EUR46.3 million in 1999. 

 Among its direct competitors Art Technology Group Inc. (ARTG) of the U.S. has painted a rosy picture for the coming year, saying customers were stepping up spending in Web infrastructure, but Broadvision Inc. (BVSN) expects flat revenues in the first quarter. 

 The low 2001 targets show that Intershop fears disappointing investors again and lacks confidence in its ability to win market share in the U.S. The problems in North America weaken the company's growth prospects and make it a much less attractive investment, analysts said. 

 "The equity story flies out the window," said a London-based analyst with a major European bank, adding that the attraction of the company was its solid European base and potential for strong sales growth in the U.S. 

 In response to the company's weak market presence in the U.S. and elsewhere, Intershop cut 200 employees globally in January - mostly in the accounting and marketing departments - and is instituting a hiring freeze, said Chief Financial Officer Beeck. The company is relocating some product-related and technical functions from the U.S. to Germany. 

 Intershop also plans to build up its sales presence in the U.S. through stronger alliances with existing sales partners. It also wants to expand its product range. It aims to have the U.S. account for 20% of sales in 2001. 

 "We have actively taken these measures to bring our financial performance back on track," said Beeck 

 "We are committed to achieving profitability on a quarterly basis by the end of 2001. We expect that these initiatives, which we are now implementing, will start to become fully effective in the second quarter of this year," Beeck added. 

 But the company will have to show proof of a turnaround in the U.S. before the international investment community is convinced. 

 "I see very few possibilities for them to succeed in the U.S. in the near future," said Wassili Papas, a manager for international growth funds with Union Investment in Frankfurt. His funds don't hold Intershop stock. 

 Intershop is the leading provider of sell-side e-commerce software in Europe. Its main Enfinity product is targeted at major corporations. It also sells Intershop 4, which provides e-commerce hosting to Internet service providers. 

 -By Chris Reiter, Dow Jones Newswires, 49 30 288 8410; chris.reiter@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx1v00h7y




 Intershop Stock Slides As 2001 Targets Disappoint Market 

 By Chris Reiter 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
688 words
31 January 2001
13:18
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 BERLIN -(Dow Jones)- Europe's top electronic commerce software company Intershop Communications AG (ISHP) Wednesday disappointed with low targets for 2001, causing investors to dump the stock yet again. 

 The company expects 2001 revenues of between EUR140 million and EUR160 million compared with analysts' expectations of EUR180 million to EUR200 million. Concerns about Intershop's ability to succeed in the lucrative U.S. market are weighing on sentiment although the company says it aims to be profitable by the end of the year. 

 "The low end (of revenue forecasts) is only 13%-14% sales growth, and that's pretty low for a company of this kind," said BNP Paribas' Alex Ryshawy who rates Intershop at neutral. "It's a lot lower than what competitors expect." 

 Based on the weak outlook and no new signs of the company turning around its struggling U.S. operations, investors sold the shares, which at 1257 GMT had fallen 17% to EUR9.94. 

 "At these levels, a lot of bad news is priced in, but we still see risk on their turnaround plan," added Ryshawy. 

 Commenting on the 2001 targets, a London-based analyst with Schroder Salomon Smith Barney, which rates the company a hold said: "The main concern is the guidance for 2001. It's below what most people were expecting," 

 Intershop was one of the new economy's leading lights until shocking investors with a profit warning at the beginning of the year that saw shares slide 70%. The warning revealed that its strong position in Europe wasn't translating into success in the lucrative North American market. 

 The company says it expects a net loss for 2001 of around the EUR39.3 million it lost last year but it expects to achieve profitability on a quarterly basis by the end of the year. 

 Intershop reported 2000 revenues of EUR123 million, up from EUR46.3 million in 1999. 

 Among its direct competitors Art Technology Group Inc. (ARTG) of the U.S. has painted a rosy picture for the coming year, saying customers were stepping up spending in Web infrastructure, but Broadvision Inc. (BVSN) expects flat revenues in the first quarter. 

 The low 2001 targets show that Intershop fears disappointing investors again and lacks confidence in its ability to win market share in the U.S. The problems in North America weaken the company's growth prospects and make it a much less attractive investment, analysts said. 

 "The equity story flies out the window," said a London-based analyst with a major European bank, adding that the attraction of the company was its solid European base and potential for strong sales growth in the U.S. 

 In response to the company's weak market presence in the U.S. and elsewhere, Intershop cut 200 employees globally in January and is relocating some operations from the U.S. to Germany. 

 Intershop also plans to build up its sales presence in the U.S. through stronger alliances with existing sales partners. It also wants to expand its product range. 

 "We have actively taken these measures to bring our financial performance back on track," said Chief Financial Officer Wilfried Beeck. 

 "We are committed to achieving profitability on a quarterly basis by the end of 2001. We expect that these initiatives, which we are now implementing, will start to become fully effective in the second quarter of this year," Beeck said. 

 But the company will have to show proof of a turnaround in the U.S. before the international investment community is convinced. 

 "I see very few possibilities for them to succeed in the U.S. in the near future," said Wassili Papas, a manager for international growth funds with Union Investment in Frankfurt. His funds don't hold Intershop stock. 

 Intershop is the leading provider of sell-side e-commerce software in Europe. Its main Enfinity product is targeted at major corporations. It also sells Intershop 4, which provides e-commerce hosting to Internet service providers. 

 -By Chris Reiter, Dow Jones Newswires, +288 8410; chris.reiter@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx1v00gui




 Chartered Semicon Shares Rise 15% On Hopes Of US Rate  Cut 

504 words
31 January 2001
08:39
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 SINGAPORE -(Dow Jones)- Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd. (CHRT), the Singapore and Nasdaq-listed chip maker, may have Alan Greenspan to thank soon. 

 Chartered shares were up sharply in Singapore Wednesday and on the Nasdaq Tuesday on hopes they would gain from a substantial cut in U.S. interest rates. 

 The Singapore-based company's American Depositary Shares traded on the Nasdaq rose 19% to US$33.94 while its shares in Singapore had chalked up gains of as much as 16%. At 0820 GMT (3:20 a.m. EST), Chartered shares were up 13% to S$5.95. 

 Chartered isn't the only semiconductor maker in Asia to post sharp gains. Its Taiwanese rivals were also stronger. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing (TSM) shares were up 6.6% to NT$105.50 and United Microelectronics Corp. (Q.UME) had gained 5.3% to NT$59.50 in late trading. 

 Greenspan and other governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board are deliberating whether to cut interest rates - a decision that could turn sentiment in favor of chip makers and other technology stocks, says Gregory Yap, head of research at OCBC Investment Research in Singapore. 

 A decision on the rate cut - Yap and others say it is likely to be by 50 basis points - would directly benefit Chartered, says Pranab Kumar Sarmah, an analyst at Daiwa Institute of Research in Singapore. 

 Chartered was a net cash company in 2000 but would be a net debt company in 2001 as it finances a US$1.2 billion equity investment plan. 

 The rise appears unrelated to Chartered's earnings announced early Tuesday that were within expectations. 

 Chartered's posted a fourth quarter net profit of US$77.4 million on revenue of US$318.7 million. Its full year net profit stood at US$244.8 million on revenue of US$1.1 billion. 

 (Corrected 0855GMT) 

 Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing was a net cash company in 2000 but would be a net debt company in 2001 as it finances a US$1.2 billion equity investment plan. 

 (In an item that ran at 0839 GMT (3:39 a.m. EST), the net cash year was misstated). 

 The earnings were in line with expectations following a profit warning in December, but Chartered's outlook for the first half of the current year is bleak because of a build up of inventory by its major customers. 

 But again Greenspan may spark a change that could directly benefit Chartered, Sarmah said. 

 He reckons a sharp cut in the U.S. Federal Funds Rate would jump start the communications sector, which accounts for 52% of Chartered's sales. 

 Chartered may also continue to gain from improvements in sentiment for technology shares. The stock hit an all-time low Jan. 3. 

 If the Nasdaq posts sustained gains - and that is still an if - Chartered's prospects look brighter, analysts said. 

 -By Hasan Jafri, Dow Jones Newswires; 65/421-4828; hasan.jafri@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx1v00gfs




 ADR REPORT - Latin ADRs up on expected Fed rate  cut . 

 By Jonathan Landreth 
643 words
30 January 2001
18:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 30 (Reuters) - The shares of Latin American companies traded in the United States gained ground Tuesday, as investors bet a cut in U.S. interest rates would boost Latin America's biggest economies. 

 "In Brazil, everybody's waiting for the Fed news," said Doug Smith of market research firm IDEAGlobal.com. "It will bring lots of revenue and move the (Brazilian currency)." 

 The U.S. Federal Reserve's policy-making committee is widely expected to cut a key short-term interest rate by half a percentage point when its meeting concludes Wednesday. 

 The BONY index of leading Latin American companies in early afternoon trading recorded a gain of 0.92 percent, outpacing a 0.24 percent gain in the Bank of New York's overall Index of Leading ADRs . 

 The BONY Index of Asian companies was basically unchanged. The BONY index of leading European companies was up slightly, gaining 0.28 percent despite a profit warning from the world's largest mobile telephone maker - Nokia - that confirmed a sector slowdown. 

 Nokia earlier on Tuesday posted an in-line 2000 pre-tax profit, but said it anticipated slower growth in the first quarter of 2001. The Finnish company, which headed the volume list on the New York Stock Exchange, saw its ADR drop $2.79, or 7.54 percent, to trade at $34.21. 

 "The Nokia story's still being written. There may be a sell-off now, but if you look at the way big cap companies warn and then see a reversal six months out, I'm guessing there will be a rally in the next few days," said one New York-based trader of European equities who asked not to be named. 

 The Nokia News hit Alcatel, the French telecom equipment company, whose ADR lost $1.34, or 2.4 percent, and also weighed down the receipts of Spain's Telefonica SA , which lost 66 cents, or 1.14 percent. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial average gained 93.92 points, or 0.88 percent, and the technology stock-laden Nasdaq Composite Index gained 0.85 points, or 0.03 percent. 

 Traders specializing in Latin American ADRs, were expecting the market to extend gains in the afternoon, when a Sao Paulo federal judge could boost Brazilian shares if he lifts the suspension on the sale of cellular licenses. 

 U.S.-traded shares of Brazil's cellular firms generally were down, but the ADRs of the country's long-distance carrier, Embratel Participacoes SA , gained 3 cents, or 0.18 percent to $16.85. Embratel has decided not to bid for the mobile licenses, but focus on data transmission services instead. 

 In Mexico, which sends almost 90 percent of its exports to the United States, moves to spur the U.S. economy are seen as key to growth. Among the gains were telecommunications heavyweight Telefonos de Mexico , whose ADRs rose $1, or 1.84 percent to $55.35. 

 Also up in Mexico was cement and building materials company Cemex , whose ADRs rose 26 cents, or 1.24 percent, to $21.27. The company earlier on Tuesday reported fourth-quarter earnings in line with expectations. 

 Mexico, however, may not be the best place to put your money, at least according to a Salomon Smith Barney report. The investment bank Monday recommended that investors switch out of Mexico and into cash, cutting the country to "neutral" from "overweight" in its model stock portfolio. 

 "That was code for 'get the hell out of there'," said IDEAGlobal.com's Smith, explaining that analysts are worried about the weakened peso. IDEAGlobal.com is forecasting a drop in the peso to 10.2 per dollar by the end of February from 9.6 per dollar now. 

 "Traders should be afraid of exposure," Smith said. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1u07bv3




 Alcatel seen easing 2001 outlook after strong 2000. 

 By Catherine Bremer 
573 words
30 January 2001
09:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 PARIS, Jan 29 (Reuters) - Alcatel is expected to live up to its strong 2000 forecasts when it unveils earnings on Wednesday but analysts fear the telecoms equipment maker could succumb to a market slowdown and trim its 2001 outlook. 

 Alcatel, which makes fixed-line, wireless and fibre-optics networks and mobile handsets as well as energy cables, forecast 2000 telecoms sales up over 35 percent, with operating profit to grow twice as much - forecasts analyst see it meeting easily. 

 Operating profit is seen up 75 percent at 2.2 billion euros ($2.02 billion) according to consensus forecasts compiled by research house Jacques Chahine Finance, implying an operating margin of 7.2 percent versus 5.5 percent in 1999. Fourth quarter operating profit is pegged at 885 million euros, and full-year sales were seen 34 percent higher at 30.93 billion euros. 

 But bearish 2001 outlooks from a number of U.S. and European rivals, due partly to a perceived U.S. economic slowdown, have braced investors for similar news from Alcatel - which rattled the markets with a profit warning in 1998. 

 "It is pretty unlikely Alcatel can remain immune in a sector that's deteriorated," said CDC Bourse analyst Alexandre Peterc, noting bearish signals from Alcatel's networks and fibre optics rivals Nortel, Cisco and Corning. 

 Analysts said that if Alcatel were to downgrade its own 2001 sales growth forecast to 20-25 percent from the current "at least 25 percent," as some market players expect, the move would be read as realistic rather than dramatic. 

 "Due to recent downbeat forecasts by U.S. tech stalwarts, a certain amount of bad news is already priced into the stock. Any revenue guidance above 20 percent would be seen as acceptable," brokers Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein said in a research note. 

 ALCATEL'S HEALTHY PROFILE TO CUSHION SLOWDOWN 

 More bullish analysts said Alcatel was better placed than many rivals to weather storms, with its strong position in the fast-growing fibre optics market and half the global market in ADSL technology for high-speed Internet access. 

 "We firmly believe Alcatel's strategic position will mean excellent 2000 results and allow it to grow market share, even in the difficult period of H1 2001," said the Global Equities brokerage, which rates Alcatel a "buy" with an 88 euro target. 

 "I don't expect a revision for 2001, 25 percent was cautious enough," said an analyst at a European bank. "Alcatel is less exposed to slowing markets than rivals and has strong momentum." 

 Alcatel, whose shares have slid 36.5 percent to 61.65 euros on Tuesday from a September peak of 97 euros, may still struggle to meet a target for a 50 percent rise in 2001 operating profit. 

 "Any downwards revision to expectations of a 2001 operating margin of 8.5 percent will be viewed negatively," DKW said. 

 CSFB said Alcatel's broadband access (DSL) business was suffering pricing pressure and lower demand although Europe would compensate to some extent for a slow U.S. market. High inventories in its other telecom markets may also scar 2001. 

 Nokia's 2000 results on Tuesday should confirm a growing market share to squeeze Alcatel's mobile phone sales. Alcatel's handset sales, only five percent of overall sales, are also seen weighed on by a slowing European handset market. (With additional reporting by William Emmanuel). 

Document lba0000020010713dx1u078g6




 AFTER THE BELL - Applied Materials, Adobe slip. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
647 words
30 January 2001
23:22
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 30 (Reuters) - The shares of Applied Materials Inc. slid in after-hours trade on Tuesday, putting some heat on other tech stocks, after the world's largest maker of semiconductor manufacturing equipment warned fiscal first-quarter results will fall below forecasts. 

 Applied Materials, which cited slower chip sales as the reason for the expected shortfall, saw its shares fall to trade last at $50-7/8 after-hours, down from their Nasdaq close at $52-7/16. 

 A big loser in aftermarket trading was Adobe Systems Inc. , whose shares fell about 16 percent after the publishing software maker warned revenues could be affected by economic weakness this quarter. 

 Adobe dropped to $44-1/4 from its close at $52-3/4 on Nasdaq. The warning was issued after the close of regular trading. Adobe, which reports its fiscal first-quarter results on March 15, also said it was spending cautiously to meet operating profit goals. 

 Among the most active issues in the aftermarket, No. 1 computer chip maker Intel Corp. fell marginally below its close at $37 before rebounding. 

 The losing column included personal computer maker Dell Computer , which last traded at $27-3/4, down from its Nasdaq close at $28-1/8. 

 In other activity, the shares of Amazon.com Inc. pulled back, giving up early gains in the aftermarket, after the Web retail giant posted a reduced quarterly loss, just beating Wall Street estimates. 

 Amazon shares were last at $18-3/16, down from their Nasdaq close at $18-15/16. The results were released after the end of the regular session. Amazon said it would cut 15 percent of its workforce, or 1,300 jobs, and take a restructuring charge of more than $150 million in the first half of 2001. 

 The shares of beleaguered online toy seller eToys also fell early in the after-hours session, before moving back to the same level they closed at in regular trade - 11/32, or slightly more than 34 cents. 

 But on a bright note, the shares of Advanced Fibre Communications Inc. rose to $21-7/16 from their Nasdaq close of $20-9/16, after the telecommunications systems maker said its fourth-quarter earnings topped Wall Street's expectations. 

 Nuance Communications Inc. rose to $42-11/16 from its close at $41-7/8. The speech recognition software maker reported a smaller-than-expected fourth-quarter loss as demand for voice Web services pushed revenues up more than 200 percent. 

 Among other companies reporting results after Tuesday's close, top Internet media software company RealNetworks Inc. posted a pro forma net profit that fell 40 percent from a year ago, but met lowered Wall Street estimates. Its shares were last at $10-11/16, off marginally from their close at $10-3/4. 

 Another stock that lost a little in aftermarket trading was that of antibody therapy developer Abgenix Inc. which reported after Tuesday's close a narrower fourth-quarter loss that matched Wall Street estimates. Abgenix fell to $44 at one point, but was last at $45, down a touch from its Nasdaq close of $45-1/4. 

 During Tuesday's regular session, blue-chip stocks rose their highest close in more than three weeks on expectations of another big interest-rate cut from the U.S. Federal Reserve and upbeat earnings from consumer products company Procter & Gamble . Tech stocks again showed resilience in the face of bad news, finishing little changed despite a gloomy earnings forecast from the world's largest mobile phone maker, Finland's Nokia . 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average surged 179.01 points, or 1.67 percent, to close at 10,881.20, and the technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index finished essentially flat, up 0.01 of a point at 2,838.35. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1u05uhb




 UPDATE 3-Motorola withdrawal savages Psion. 

 By Richard Meares and David Holmes 
737 words
29 January 2001
17:50
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Jan 29 (Reuters) - Psion shares were savaged on Monday after it said Motorola had pulled out of a key project to create "smartphones", dealing Europe's biggest handheld computer maker what one analyst called a bodyblow. 

 The stock lost nearly a fifth of their worth to close at 210-3/4 pence, a 16-month closing low and wiping some 210 million pounds ($306 million) off Psion's market value. 

 Chief Executive David Levin told a conference call the collapse of the partnership would cut about 12 million pounds off pre-tax profits for 2001 as a result of the extra development costs and lost profits from the project. 

 Analysts were expecting Psion profits in a range from 11.4 to 27.5 million for the year, according to Barra estimates. 

 "This news really is bad, it is a bodyblow for them because Psion has got really little new-product launch this year and that was to be it," said Nomura analyst Keith Woolcock. 

 Psion said it would carry on alone with the extra costs and delays. 

 Psion, which lost a quarter of its value in October when it issued a profit warning, added to the grim news by saying the division incorporating its big acquisition of last year, Canada's Teklogix, had not performed as well as had been hoped. 

 The Motorola announcement came late in the day but the fall in Psion shares began in the morning after a media report it was losing share in the European handheld computer market, mainly to its chief rival Palm . 

 Trying to counter the report of falling sales, Psion said it shipped over half a million palmtop units in 2000, two thirds more than a year before. 

 Speculation of a possible linkup with Palm helped revive the stock a bit before the Motorola news crashed onto the market. 

 SYMBIAN STILL WINNING, PSION SAYS 

 Psion and Motorola will stop jointly developing wireless information devices, which were to use the EPOC operating system of Symbian - a consortium Psion leads and which includes phone makers Motorola, Ericsson and Nokia . 

 Motorola said the move was to streamline its product range, but said it would continue to develop alone a mobile "smartphone" based on EPOC, due on the market next year. 

 Psion's Levin said this gave support to his company's view that Symbian was "winning the wireless war" against rival operating systems offered by Palm and by Microsoft . 

 Psion will press on with a range of wireless devices, the first of which should have hit the market in the middle of this year but would now be delayed until the first half of 2002. 

 "We are talking to a variety of possible partners," a spokesman said. Psion does not have the resources or the wireless phone technology to do it alone. 

 The damage of the delay is attenuated somewhat by the fact that GPRS, a new mobile telephone technology that enhances current networks' access to the Internet and for which the new devices are meant, is itself behind schedule across Europe. 

 But the news was still a black cloud enshrouding Psion, which had hoped the tie-up with one of the world's biggest mobile phone makers would boost its fortunes and make it a force to be reckoned with in the Palm-dominated U.S. market. 

 WIDS 

 Wireless information devices are basically mobile phones combined with handheld or palmtop computers. 

 The "smartphone" end of the range that Motorola is sticking with will be more like a souped-up cellphone, whereas the "communicator" that Psion is carrying on with is more like a more powerful palmtop that is also a phone. Nomura's Woolcock said it was clear Psion now needed a partner for its handheld computers division. 

 The company's shares have now underperformed the FTSE all-share index by 60 percent over a year. 

 Motorola will have paid $8 million towards the joint development which it forfeits by pulling out. 

 To save money in the Teklogix division, manufacturing will be centralised at Mississauga in Canada, with 100 jobs being cut in Britain at Didcot near Oxford. 

 Levin said this would save 2.6 million pounds in 2001 as a one-off, and bring annual savings of three million pounds - of which 1.2 million were expected to be realised in 2001. 

 (Additional reporting by Rex Merrifield). 

Document lba0000020010713dx1t07amn




 Rohm and Haas profits fall. 

260 words
29 January 2001
22:50
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 29 (Reuters) - Specialty chemicals company Rohm and Haas Co said on Monday that slowing sales and rising energy costs cut fourth-quarter earnings, which slightly exceed analysts' expectations after an earlier profit warning. 

 The Philadelphia-based company, which makes chemicals used in products ranging from paint to electronic goods, said fourth-quarter net earnings fell to $70 million, or 32 cents per share, for the quarter, compared with earnings of $90 million, or 41 cents per share, for the fourth quarter of 1999. 

 Earnings excluding non-recurring items fell to 32 cents for the 2000 fourth quarter, compared with 46 cents per share for the comparable period in 1999. Analysts on average had expected the company to earn 31 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, having lowered their view from the 35 cents they were forecasting before the company issued a profit warning last month. 

 Along with other chemical companies, Rohm and Haas has been bitten by soaring costs for energy, and natural gas in particular, which is a key raw material in the chemical business. The company said the tough conditions should continue this year. 

 "It's already clear that our performance in 2001 will be well below the performance for the first half of 2000, with the comparison against last year's strong first quarter being the most severe," said Chairman and Chief Executive Raj Gupta. Shares of the company fell $1.17 to $32.58 on the New York Stock Exchange before its earnings were reported. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1t078sr




 Marketing & Media 
 Gillette Reports Loss for Fourth Period, Backs Away From Short-Term Guidance 

 By Mark Maremont 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
575 words
29 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal
J
B9
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Gillette Co. swung to a loss in the fourth quarter due to a hefty restructuring charge, and surprised investors by saying it would no longer provide guidance on its short-term earnings outlook to avoid distracting management from long-term goals. 

 The maker of razors, batteries, toothbrushes and other consumer products reported a net loss of $85 million, or eight cents a share, compared with net income of $339 million, or 32 cents a diluted share, for the year-earlier period. Revenue rose a scant 1% to $2.82 billion from $2.8 billion. All figures exclude the company's stationery-products unit, which it sold during the quarter. 

 Excluding a charge of $430 million, or 41 cents a share, for a restructuring program, Gillette said its profit for the quarter was $345 million, or 33 cents a share, compared with $335 million, or 32 cents a share, in the prior year's fourth quarter. The latest period's results slightly exceeded the 32 cents expected by 15 analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. Analysts reduced their forecasts following an earlier warning by Gillette. 

 Gillette, Boston, said sales of its core blades and razors rose 10% for the period while profits in the segment jumped 29%, partly due to continuing strong performance from its flagship Mach 3 razor line. That stronger-than-expected performance was offset by continued weakness in the company's Duracell battery unit, where sales fell 6% and profit dropped 31%. 

 Charles W. Cramb, Gillette's chief financial officer, said heavy spending on Duracell promotion cut into profit margins. But he said the company has started to "see some recovery" in the market share of Duracell's core brand in the U.S. 

 Like nearly all consumer-products companies, Gillette for years has provided fairly specific guidance on its expectations for future earnings. Edward F. DeGraan, Gillette's president, said the decision to halt such forecasts was initiated by the company's board, which "felt very strongly" that providing quarterly guidance "might lead us astray" from a focus on the long-term strategic direction and health of the company. Gillette has had difficulty meeting its quarterly forecasts for more than two years. 

 The move away from guidance drew sharp criticism from one analyst on the company's conference call, who said it would undermine investors' confidence. Catherine Lewis, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, echoed that fear in a note to clients, saying that "nothing could appear less cohesive, or less stable, than a company abruptly abstaining from public financial targets or guidance." 

 But Ms. Lewis reiterated her outperform rating on Gillette's stock, citing prospects for a turnaround under James M. Kilts, a former Nabisco Holdings Corp. chief executive who was named Gillette's chairman and CEO last week. 

 Gillette's move runs counter to the trend among many companies to disclose more, rather than less, information to investors as a result of Regulation FD, a Securities and Exchange Commission ruling that requires public dissemination of material information that before was often given only to analysts or large investors. 

 Fredric E. Russell, a Tulsa, Okla., money manager whose firm is a Gillette investor, applauded the shift as a "wise move" that would give management more breathing room to reinvest in the flagging Duracell brand. 

Document j000000020010711dx1t001qu




 Parthus `close' to GPRS solution. 

 By PATRICK LOGUE. 
734 words
29 January 2001
Irish Times
IRTI
8
English
(c) 2001

 Irish computer chip designer Parthus is close to solving a problem that has stalled its rollout of General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), the next generation of wireless technology. At the announcement of a 68 per cent annual increase in revenues last week, the company's chief executive Brian Long hinted the last hurdle - battery power - would hopefully be overcome later this year. GPRS allows high-speed Internet access via mobile phone; unfortunately, it also uses battery power at a similar rate. If Parthus' engineers can solve this dilemma, the company will truly enter the big league. 

 Elsewhere in the Irish technology sector, there was more gloom with the announcement that Internet Consultancy firm Nua was to lay off one-third of its workforce. The company hopes the 22 lay-offs will be temporary in the event of orders being placed in the coming weeks. Meanwhile, computer-maker Gateway said it was shedding 132 jobs at its Dublin plant and more cuts were planned. The company issued a profit warning on January 12th and said it would cut 10 per cent of its workforce worldwide. The job cuts are as a result of slowing computer sales. Aol change: AOL Time Warner is reported to be shedding more than 2,400 jobs, or 3 per cent of its workforce, in several other sectors. The cuts are reported to be in the music and film sector, and in the online division AOL. The cuts are designed to boost earnings as promised to investors before the merger between AOL and Time Warner. 

 Copyrights: The European Parliament will vote tomorrow on amendments to a directive governing copyright laws in the EU. Music industry lobbyists have been trying to ensure that any new law will limit music swapping on the Internet to personal use only. The music industry says the directive's current wording is too vague and should incorporate more specific language in order to discourage Napster-like sharing of songs among a large group of people. Ya-sue!: Nazi concentration camp survivors are suing search engine Yahoo! and accusing it of justifying Nazi crimes. The survivors' lawyer said Yahoo! had promoted Nazi war crimes and crimes against humanity by selling Nazi relics on its auction site. Yahoo! introduced a system several weeks ago to stop the auctioning of Nazi relics after it was put under pressure by a French court. 

 Rats are us: It has been reported that a new system is being tested in the US which will use websites and freephone numbers to give anonymity to students who wish to report fellow-students they consider to be dangerous or potentially violent. The system aims to pre-empt high school shooting incidents and arises out of an increasing belief in the US that the Internet is turning normal kids into killers. The system is being tested in North Carolina and it may be introduced across America soon. What's up doc?: A new service linking the State's doctors on the Web is to begin this Thursday. Doctor-Doctor will inform members of urgent issues affecting their daily clinical practice, including drug withdrawals and vaccine recommendations. The service will initially be available on the Web at www.d2d.ie and will also feature e-mail alerts and WAP and SMS services in the near future. 

 Ireland.com traffic increases: The Irish Times's website ireland.com has recorded an increase of over 73 per cent in traffic in the 12 months from October 1999 to October 2000, according to ABC Electronic audit figures. The site recorded 17.8 million page impressions and the number of individual users increased from 620,000 in October 1999 to 1.3 million in October 2000. This represents an increase of over 100 per cent. In brief... Newry-based firm First Derivatives won the Deloitte & Touche Technology Fast 50 awards last Thursday... An Irish Delegation will travel to the US this week to meet with policy-makers, regulators and blue-chip US technology companies in a US/Ireland e-commerce forum... 

 British-born academic M. Stuart Lynn has been appointed chief executive of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN)... Hackers blocked access to several websites owned by Microsoft with a "denial-of-service attack" on Thursday, one day after an internal error blocked access to the software giant's sites... 

Document irti000020010712dx1t00nel




 J.B. Hunt Posts 95% Increase in 4th-Quarter Net Income, Beating Estimates 

616 words
29 January 2001
17:07
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 LOWELL, Ark. -- J.B. Hunt Transport Services Inc., continuing to buck a downturn among some of its rivals in the trucking industry, reported a 95% increase in fourth-quarter net income, exceeding Wall Street expectations. 

 However, the company was cautious about conditions in the trucking industry through the current first quarter. 

 The trucking company posted net income of $10.9 million, or 31 cents a share, compared with $5.6 million, or 16 cents a share, a year earlier. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of 26 cents a share in the latest quarter. 

 Revenue fell 3.5% to $534 million from $553.4 million, largely because of the loss of logistics-services revenue to the Transplace.com venture. J.B. Hunt and five other trucking companies merged their logistics operations into the venture last year. J.B. Hunt receives a share of the venture's earnings but no longer records logistics revenue. 

 Earlier this month, the company issued an upbeat outlook for the fourth quarter, saying it would earn 28 cents to 30 cents a share. At the time, analysts had been expecting earnings of 23 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 J.B. Hunt, which operates more than 9,000 trucks and 35,000 trailers and containers, said its trucking revenue grew 11%, while revenue from its "intermodal" shipments -- those carried by a combination of railroad and highway -- rose 9%. 

 "Industry conditions remained severe in the fourth quarter due to extremely high fuel prices, a slowdown in the freight-moving economy, collapsing used-truck values and skyrocketing insurance costs," the company said Monday in a prepared statement. 

 The company also said its supply of drivers was at an "all-time high," and has implemented a hiring cap. 

 J.B. Hunt said it expects continuing slow growth for shipments at least through the first quarter. 

 The company added that a growing number of trucking bankruptcies could create a capacity shortage in the "truckload arena" later this year. J.B. Hunt also anticipates rising freight rates to reflect the demand-supply imbalance and "return some of the onerous cost increases that have plagued the industry for the last several years." 

 J.B. Hunt said it will focus on improving margins in the truck segment while maintaining profitable growth in the dedicated contract services and intermodal segments. 

 No capacity growth is planned for the truck segment for 2001, but the company said it does expect to add some independent contractors. 

 J.B. Hunt didn't provide a specific first-quarter forecast in Monday's statement, but analysts are expecting earnings of 13 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. J.B. Hunt posted earnings of $5 million, or 14 cents a share, on revenue of $533.6 million, a year earlier. 

 Among the carriers that have warned of fourth-quarter shortfalls, U.S. Xpress Enterprise Inc. (XPRSA) said Jan. 4 that it expects to show a loss of 11 cents a share to 13 cents a share before charges. Analysts expect the company to lose 12 cents a share, reversing a profit of 13 cents a share a year earlier. Before the warning, analysts were looking for a smaller loss of eight cents a share. 

 In addition, Boyd Bros. Transportation Inc. (BOYD) on Jan. 8 said it anticipates a loss of 15 cents to 20 cents a share, citing sluggish freight conditions, particularly in the steel industry; high diesel fuel costs; and a reduction in the number of owner-operators. 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020010711dx1t00b15




 Business Europe: Unlocking 3M's Potential  

 By Georg Tacke  
1,176 words
29 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
11
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)  

 BONN -- Repeat something often enough, and it becomes fact, some believe. That could describe the public relations philosophy of 3M Corp., which has conditioned investors over the past 20 years to associate it with words like strong, innovative and consistent.  

 All three words appeared in the press release that announced that W. James McNerney, Jr. would become chairman and CEO. As a result of the announcement, 3M's stock price jumped on Dec. 5 closing up at $116 5/8 per share -- one of its best performances in the past three years. And investor's expectations kept the share price buoyant. It closed the year at $122 15/16, just a few cents below its 52-week high.  

 Now, less than three weeks into Mr. McNerney's tenure, his vote of confidence has almost evaporated. On Jan. 5, Lehman Brothers cut its profit estimates for 3M after a competing manufacturer of specialized tapes and films issued a profit warning. 3M then issued its own warning on Jan. 16, prompting another investment house, SG Cowen, to downgrade the stock to "neutral" from a "strong buy." The stock closed down at $107.31 per share on Friday.  

 Have investors soured on 3M? Certainly investors anticipated that the new CEO would use his 18 years of experience at General Electric and his standing as an outsider -- the first to run 3M in its 98-year history -- to make a sober, swift examination of the company. Instead, the new chief said that aggressive cost containment is in the works, but that a restructuring of the company is not.  

 Mr. McNerney's cautious approach out of the starting box is one big reason for 3M's shrinking share price.  

 The new chief needs to make 3M a stronger competitor and to rethink Europe's role in the company. 3M is still earning profits from yesterday's products instead of breakthrough innovations and is being constrained by a corporate culture that is open to new technologies, but not to new ways of doing business. Indeed, if you match its potential and resources against its performance, 3M no longer looks like a world-class competitor.  

 I have always perceived 3M as a $25-billion company trapped within a happy, easygoing $15-billion one. It struggles because it is technology- and idea-driven, rather than market-driven. Product ideas often originate with a handful of customers for whom 3M develops a product without considering the broader market potential. The 3M motto "make a little, sell a little" says it all.  

 The company concentrates on high-margin, premium niches where it enjoys a very high market share. Realizing high margins and high market shares is easy, however, when you define your markets so narrowly. In profitable areas such as graphic film, pavement markings and certain medical products, 3M initially confined itself to specialized applications, and left the bulk of these multi-billion dollar markets to others. But over time, growth potential in the high-end shrank or disappeared. Meanwhile, the rest of the market continued to grow strongly. Soon rivals became strong enough to offset some of 3M's advantages and invade its premium turf. All the while, 3M failed to take its highly competitive products, even in modified form, "down market." If there is a single, consistent pattern that applies to nearly all 3M divisions, this is it.  

 "Make a little, sell a little" is code for "risk a little, get a little." That is not the recipe for building large markets and defending them aggressively. In order to unlock its growth potential, 3M needs to develop a strategy for the total market, not the narrow slice it is accustomed to. And it needs to think in terms of total (absolute) profit, not margins. Finally, it needs to be prepared to invest heavily in market development.  

 The company also will have to advance a strategy for fulfilling its vast potential -- particularly in Europe. Its products are household names in the U.S., with brands like Post-It, Scotch tape, and Thinsulate. It realizes almost half of its revenues there. By contrast, Europe, which has many economic similarities with the U.S. -- its industrial concentration is much denser and serves a larger population -- accounts for only some 25% of consolidated sales.  

 How can 3M do better in Europe? For one thing, 3M's executives in St. Paul, Minnesota should develop a keener ear for what the company's European researchers and managers have to say and what their individual markets require. European teams have successfully developed and launched two 3M product lines in occupational health and safety in the last five years, proving that regional managers can read their markets well and -- more importantly -- that products with global potential can emerge here.  

 The company should also look at Western Europe as a springboard to the East. Central European markets are developed enough for competitors to have established long-term positions and 3M needs to do the same and start integrating them into western operations -- even if it must accept lower profit margins in the short-term.  

 Finally, 3M's European operations need streamlining. A lot of good ideas lose their momentum as they wind their way through this welter of divisions, regional offices and business units.  

 None of this can be successful without innovation. And yet the company's biggest strengths is its lab culture, as dramatized in the story of chemist Spencer Silver's development of the Post-It adhesive. But that culture is often overrated. The success of Post-It is an exception at 3M, not the rule.  Post-It notes are 20 years old. They were born in the days before personal computers, compact discs and cellular phones. A 3M manager once told me that the Post-It story might be one of the worst things that ever happened to 3M, because it created an expectation -- internally and externally -- for breakthrough, mass-market products the company has not fulfilled.  

 In Europe, 3M has recently taken some steps to bolster innovation. It is building a state-of-the-art research facility in Neuss, Germany, and is integrating Quante AG, a telecommunications supplier that adds $350 million in revenues. But infrastructure and acquisition are not cure-alls. The company needs to become more systematic in its business approach and uncompromising in its execution -- from the boardroom to the local salesman's cubicle.  

 Last Wednesday's fourth quarter and full-year earning announcements met neither the company's nor the market's original expectations. Fourth-quarter earnings $1.12 per share (excluding some one-time charges) fell well below consensus estimates of $1.20 per share. These results illustrate the task ahead for Mr. McNerney and 3M. Investors will expect both bold vision and dispatch in putting ideas into practice.  

 ---  

 Mr. Tacke, a consultant to 3M in the U.S. and Europe over the last 10 years, is a senior partner in the Bonn office of Simon-Kucher & Partners, a global strategy and marketing consultancy.  

Document wsje000020010713dx1t00133


 Fish or  Cut  Bait: Ticker symbol tango  <b>Fish or  Cut  Bait:</b> ETrade Group's stock surged after the company announced that it was moving from the Nasdaq to the New York Stock Exchange. But ETrade is still an online broker, and a different ticker symbol won't change that. 

1,493 words
29 January 2001
Redherring.com
RHO
English
 (c)2001. Red Herring Communications. All rights reserved. 

 To get this column sent to your inbox, subscribe to the email newsletter. 

 Check out the FOCB Index! 

 The price of a stock often moves up for fairly innocuous reasons. For instance, when a company announces a stock split, investors typically bid up the price of that company's shares even though a split is nothing more than a cosmetic way to make a stock appear cheaper by lowering the price per share. 

 But of all possible reasons for a stock's price to rise, perhaps one of the silliest is a company switching stock exchanges. And that's precisely what happened with online brokerage ETrade Group (NASDAQ: EGRP) last week. 

 ETrade, known for its quirky, and occasionally disquieting, ads (think of the one with the buff young male massaging the bunions of a considerably older "sugar mommy"), announced last Tuesday that it will list on the New York Stock Exchange instead of the Nasdaq. While the Nasdaq lists many technology companies, including startups, the NYSE is home to many older and more established companies that are usually tracked against the Dow Jones Industrial Average or the S&amp;P 500. The company's new ticker symbol starting next month will be ET, which makes me picture a series of new ETrade commercials hosted by a cute Reeses Pieces-consuming alien looking to phone home with a hot stock tip. Or how about Entertainment Tonight's ageless Mary Hart? 

 Although the move from one exchange to another signifies nothing about the underlying fundamentals of ETrade, the news boosted the stock 6.1 percent on Tuesday. This seemed especially odd, because two of ETrade's top publicly traded competitors, Charles Schwab (NYSE: SCH) and Ameritrade (NASDAQ: AMTD), both fell the same day. 

 If you checked out the message boards on Tuesday, there were plenty of happy investors who seemed to think that ETrade's transfer to the NYSE was a panacea to the problems plaguing it and other online brokers lately, namely flat trading-volume growth and declining inflows into customer accounts. And in the press release heralding the move, ETrade CEO Christos Cotsakos stated that the switch to the NYSE will allow ETrade to align itself "with the top financial services companies around the world." 

 To that, I say, "Hogwash." 

 YOU CAN'T TAKE THE COUNTRY OUT OF THE GIRL 

 Anyone who thinks that moving from the Nasdaq to the NYSE will help ETrade go legit is sadly mistaken. Investors are not going to switch gears and start viewing ETrade in the same regard as say, Citigroup (NYSE: C), JP Morgan Chase (NYSE: JPM), or Goldman Sachs (NYSE: GS), simply because it no longer trades with the wild and woolly Nasdaq. 

 Look at PC maker Gateway (NYSE: GTW): it transferred from the Nasdaq to the NYSE on May 22, 1997. But if you charted Gateway's stock performance with that of major market indices since it joined the NYSE, you'd see that Gateway's stock closely mirrors the Nasdaq's movement rather than that of the Dow or S&amp;P. 

 From its first day on the NYSE to the day the Nasdaq hit its peak on March 10, 2000, Gateway's stock increased 263 percent; the Nasdaq was up 263.3 percent in the same period. The Dow and S&amp;P, meanwhile, increased just 35.2 percent and 64.7 percent, respectively, during the same period. Since March 10, Gateway has plunged 67.2 percent, in tandem with Nasdaq's 45.4 percent tumble. The S&amp;P, on the other hand, is down just 2.7 percent, and the Dow has actually risen 8 percent in the same time frame. 

 And this makes perfect sense. Gateway competitors Dell (NASDAQ: DELL) and Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL), for example, both trade on the Nasdaq, as do many semiconductor and PC software companies that have been struggling recently as a result of slowing demand for personal computers. Moreover, the health of the technology sector as a whole is best gauged by the Nasdaq. 

 Several technology-related companies have moved from the Nasdaq to the NYSE in recent years and have not shed their tech-stock status. Storage drive maker Iomega (NYSE: IOM) has fallen 70 percent since it moved to the NYSE in November 1996. Its three-letter ticker symbol can't save it from diminished demand for disk drives. And the technology research and consulting firm Gartner Group (NYSE: IT) wasn't able to escape the dot-com stock collapse unscathed just because it changed horses on September 15, 1998. Its stock has fallen 68 percent since then. 

 A TICKER BY ANY OTHER NAME 

 Now, don't get me wrong. Moving from the Nasdaq to the NYSE does make sense for many reasons. The spread between bid and ask prices are typically not as wide, and there's usually more liquidity on the NYSE. These two factors tend to make NYSE-listed stocks less volatile than those trading on the Nasdaq. And it's not as if any Nasdaq company can decide to transfer its listing on a whim, either, because the NYSE has stricter financial requirements. According to Noreen Culhane, the NYSE's senior vice president for listings and client service, only about 10 percent of the companies trading on the Nasdaq would be eligible to trade on the NYSE. 

 And to be sure, I'm not saying that all technology companies that move from the Nasdaq to the NYSE are destined to perform miserably once they hit the Big Board. In fact, contract manufacturer Jabil Circuit (NYSE: JBL) is up 222.2 percent since it left the Nasdaq on May 5, 1998. But the stock hasn't soared this high because of the NYSE's prestige factor -- it's because Jabil is a healthy company in a solidly growing industry that continues to benefit from the increased outsourcing trend in technology. 

 Nasdaq-listed competitors Sanmina (NASDAQ: SANM) and Flextronics (NASDAQ: FLEX) are up 332.9 percent and 511.3 percent, respectively, during the same time frame. And NYSE-listed Solectron (NYSE: SLR) has gained 257.5 percent. 

 The exchange a company lists on is irrelevant. To paraphrase James Carville, it's the sector, stupid. ETrade is still an online broker and will continue to be treated as such by investors, whether its ticker symbol is EGRP or ET. 

 FOCB INDEX WINNERS AND LOSERS 

 In this portion of the column, I usually spend some time to talk about the best and worst performing stocks in the Fish or Cut Bait Reader Index, a collection of 50 stocks recommended by readers of this newsletter, in addition to the Digital Hollywood Index, which was selected by the editors of Red Herring. 

 But from now on, I'm going to only discuss the FOCB index in this column. We now have a new weekly market wrap-up column called Market Currents, which appears on our site on Tuesdays, and in that column the Digital Hollywood will be discussed along with Red Herring's Tech 250 index. (To check out the first installment of Market Currents, click here). 

 Now, on to the FOCB. After four straight weeks with a gain, the index finally took a breather and dropped slightly last week. Openwave System (NASDAQ: OPWV), the company formed from the merger of Phone.com and Software.com, was the big winner of the week, gaining 37.4 percent after the wireless application protocol (WAP) pioneer reported its first quarterly profit and raised its outlook for 2001. On the loser side of the equation, flash memory chip maker Sandisk (NASDAQ: SNDK) was the worst performer, dropping 24.3 percent after its release of disappointing fourth-quarter revenues and a warning of continued sluggishness in its market throughout the first half of 2001. 

 This week, there's pretty much one event that investors will be focusing on: the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee meeting. Wall Street is obviously hoping that Alan Greenspan and Co. will cut interest rates again at the conclusion of its two-day meeting on January 31. In my mind, the only news better than a rate cut would be a victory by the New York Giants in the Super Bowl. (Note: This column was wrapped up before Super Bowl Sunday. And even though most readers will already know the outcome of the game because they will read this column Monday morning, here's my prediction anyway. Giants 17, Ravens 6. Go Big Blue!) 

 Discuss today's column in the Fish or Cut Bait column discussion, or check out forums, video, and events at the Discussions home page. 

Document rho0000020010712dx1t000rp




 Tribune Q4 earnings fall as ad market softens. 

 By Derek Caney 
797 words
27 January 2001
00:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 26 (Reuters) - Tribune Co., publisher of the Chicago Tribune and the Los Angeles Times newspapers, said on Friday its fourth-quarter operating earnings fell against the backdrop of a softening advertising market. 

 The company, which also owns several television stations and the Chicago Cubs baseball team, reported earnings of 36 cents a share from continuing operations, excluding one-time items, compared with 44 cents a year earlier. 

 The Wall Street consensus estimate of 34 cents a share, as compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial, was lowered in December from 37 cents after the company issued a profit warning, citing the advertising environment. 

 Last year, media companies were flush with money coming in from aggressive campaigns by dot-com companies, many of which have failed over the course of the year. The prospect of a weaker overall economy has put pressure on advertising budgets of established companies as well. 

 "We feel we're well positioned for 2001 even in the face of slower ad trends, because we're in major markets and many of those markets are multimedia markets," said Dennis FitzSimons, president of Tribune Broadcasting. 

 It reiterated forecasts made in early December for its business segments of 4 to 6 percent growth in publishing revenue and 6 to 7 percent growth in broadcasting revenue. 

 Some newspaper publishers like E.W. Scripps Co. and Knight Ridder Inc. were forced to cut their expectations for advertising sales for 2001, citing an anticipated sluggish first half of the year. 

 Scripps, publisher of the Cincinnati Post and the Denver Rocky Mountain News, said on Tuesday its newspaper revenues would grow 4 percent in 2001, whereas in early December it had expected 5 percent growth. It also trimmed broadcasting growth to 1 percent, from 5 percent. 

 Knight Ridder, publisher of the San Jose Mercury News and the Philadelphia Inquirer, said on Wednesday advertising revenue would rise 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent. In early December it forecast 4.0 percent to 4.5 percent growth. 

 Dow Jones & Co. said advertising linage could fall as much as 5 percent at the Wall Street Journal. The company noted, however that if an economic recovery started in the second quarter, linage would be flat for the year. 

 The Tribune's Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration Donald Greshenko said in a conference call with analysts he expected first-quarter earnings to be 25 cents a share, after a reduction of 5 cents per share from its acquisition of Times Mirror Co. 

 Excluding the dilution, he said he expected earnings to be "about equal" to those of last year's first quarter. 

 The company's shares fell 9/16, to $38-9/16 in late trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Shares reached a 52-week high of $49-7/16 a year ago and a 52-week low of $27-7/8 in March. 

 The company's bottom-line profit fell 73 percent to $32.9 million, or 11 cents a share, compared with $121.7 million, or 51 cents a share, largely on the back of write-downs of the value of some of its investments. 

 Tribune said its operating revenues rose to $1.5 billion from $766 million a year earlier. Pro forma revenues, which include its June acquisition of Times Mirror, rose 2 percent to $1.5 billion from $1.47 billion. 

 Tribune said pro forma ad revenue at its publishing division grew to just $890 million from $887 million in 1999. National advertising fell 5 percent in the fourth quarter due to lower dot-com advertising, although retail advertising grew 3 percent and classified advertising remained flat. 

 The company reiterated its 2001 earnings projection of $1.55 per share, up from $1.30 in 2000. It also said it expects its consolidated revenues in 2001 to grow by 6 percent to 8 percent. 

 Separately on Friday, the Washington Post Co. reported a 35 percent decline in fourth quarter profits to $37.7 million, or $3.98 a share, compared with $61 million, or $6.09 a share in the year earlier period. 

 Its fourth quarter included a $16.5 million charge, of $1.74 a share, for an early retirement program at its flagship Washington Post newspaper. 

 The decline was also attributed to added spending on new businesses like the educational publishing unit Kaplan Inc. and the Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive venture. 

 Excluding the one-time retirement charge, the company, which publishes the Washington Post and Newsweek magazine, earnings totaled $5.72 a share, beating the Wall Street consensus estimate of $5.41 a share, as compiled by research firm First Call/Thomson Publishing. 

 (Additional reporting by Jennifer Laidlaw in New York.) 

 Reuters/Variety. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1r076tt




 UPDATE 3-Tribune Q4 earnings fall as ad market softens. 

 By Derek Caney 
804 words
26 January 2001
20:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 (Adds forecasts from competitors; Washington Post earnings) 

 NEW YORK, Jan 26 (Reuters) - Tribune Co., publisher of the Chicago Tribune and the Los Angeles Times newspapers, said on Friday its fourth-quarter operating earnings fell against the backdrop of a softening advertising market. 

 The company, which also owns several television stations and the Chicago Cubs baseball team, reported earnings of 36 cents a share from continuing operations, excluding one-time items, compared with 44 cents a year earlier. 

 The Wall Street consensus estimate of 34 cents a share, as compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial, was lowered in December from 37 cents after the company issued a profit warning, citing the advertising environment. 

 Last year, media companies were flush with money coming in from aggressive campaigns by dot-com companies, many of which have failed over the course of the year. The prospect of a weaker overall economy has put pressure on advertising budgets of established companies as well. 

 "We feel we're well positioned for 2001 even in the face of slower ad trends, because we're in major markets and many of those markets are multimedia markets," said Dennis FitzSimons, president of Tribune Broadcasting. 

 It reiterated forecasts made in early December for its business segments of 4 to 6 percent growth in publishing revenue and 6 to 7 percent growth in broadcasting revenue. 

 Some newspaper publishers like E.W. Scripps Co. and Knight Ridder Inc. were forced to cut their expectations for advertising sales for 2001, citing an anticipated sluggish first half of the year. 

 Scripps, publisher of the Cincinnati Post and the Denver Rocky Mountain News, said on Tuesday its newspaper revenues would grow 4 percent in 2001, whereas in early December it had expected 5 percent growth. It also trimmed broadcasting growth to 1 percent, from 5 percent. 

 Knight Ridder, publisher of the San Jose Mercury News and the Philadelphia Inquirer, said on Wednesday advertising revenue would rise 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent. In early December it forecast 4.0 percent to 4.5 percent growth. 

 Dow Jones & Co. said advertising linage could fall as much as 5 percent at the Wall Street Journal. The company noted, however that if an economic recovery started in the second quarter, linage would be flat for the year. 

 The Tribune's Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration Donald Greshenko said in a conference call with analysts he expected first-quarter earnings to be 25 cents a share, after a reduction of 5 cents per share from its acquisition of Times Mirror Co. 

 Excluding the dilution, he said he expected earnings to be "about equal" to those of last year's first quarter. 

 The company's shares fell 9/16, to $38-9/16 in late trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Shares reached a 52-week high of $49-7/16 a year ago and a 52-week low of $27-7/8 in March. 

 The company's bottom-line profit fell 73 percent to $32.9 million, or 11 cents a share, compared with $121.7 million, or 51 cents a share, largely on the back of write-downs of the value of some of its investments. 

 Tribune said its operating revenues rose to $1.5 billion from $766 million a year earlier. Pro forma revenues, which include its June acquisition of Times Mirror, rose 2 percent to $1.5 billion from $1.47 billion. 

 Tribune said pro forma ad revenue at its publishing division grew to just $890 million from $887 million in 1999. National advertising fell 5 percent in the fourth quarter due to lower dot-com advertising, although retail advertising grew 3 percent and classified advertising remained flat. 

 The company reiterated its 2001 earnings projection of $1.55 per share, up from $1.30 in 2000. It also said it expects its consolidated revenues in 2001 to grow by 6 percent to 8 percent. 

 Separately on Friday, the Washington Post Co. reported a 35 percent decline in fourth quarter profits to $37.7 million, or $3.98 a share, compared with $61 million, or $6.09 a share in the year earlier period. 

 Its fourth quarter included a $16.5 million charge, of $1.74 a share, for an early retirement program at its flagship Washington Post newspaper. 

 The decline was also attributed to added spending on new businesses like the educational publishing unit Kaplan Inc. and the Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive venture. 

 Excluding the one-time retirement charge, the company, which publishes the Washington Post and Newsweek magazine, earnings totaled $5.72 a share, beating the Wall Street consensus estimate of $5.41 a share, as compiled by research firm First Call/Thomson Publishing. 

 (Additional reporting by Jennifer Laidlaw in New York.). 

Document lba0000020010713dx1q076tc




 RESEARCH ALERT-CSFB downgrades PMC Sierra. 

104 words
26 January 2001
13:48
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 26 (Reuters) - Credit Suisse First Boston on Friday said it cut its rating and 2001 earnings view for communications chipmaker PMC-Sierra Inc. , citing the company's first-quarter profit warning. 

 The brokerage cut its rating for the company to buy from strong buy. 

 CSFB also sliced its 2001 earnings estimate by nearly 50 percent, to 88 cents from $1.70. 

 The company's shares tumbled $31-7/8 to $64 in Friday pre-market trade, heading toward their 52-week low of $57-3/4. The stock's year-high is $255-1/2. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1q075mn




 Dow profits drop, warns about outlook. 

 By Paul Thomasch 
523 words
26 January 2001
08:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 25 (Reuters) - Dow Chemical Co. , the No. 2 U.S. chemical company, said Thursday its fourth-quarter income fell 9 percent, while warning the high raw material costs and slowing economy which hurt it last year would continue to haunt the company in months to come. 

 Echoing comments by DuPont Co. and other chemical concerns, Midland, Mich.-based Dow said that the sharp rise in prices for crude oil natural gas took a toll on its bottom line in the fourth-quarter. 

 The story will likely be the same in the first quarter, the company said, warning that it would miss current profit forecasts. 

 Mike Parker, who took over as the company's president and chief executive officer in November, cautioned the first half of 2001 would be "very very challenging." 

 "The major story for our industry will continue to be hydrocarbon and energy prices," he said on a conference call after the company posted lower fourth-quarter earnings. 

 Net income for Dow, which is acquiring Union Carbide Corp. , fell to $243 million, or 36 cents a diluted share, from $267 million, or 40 a share, in the same period a year earlier, the company said. 

 The year-earlier period involved special charges, including charges for restructuring, which cut earnings by 10 cents a share. 

 Dow's earnings matched analysts' expectations of 36 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks estimates. Its stock rose 3/8 to $32-3/8 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Sales for the quarter rose to $5.3 billion from $5.2 billion. 

 With oil for the quarter averaging nearly $32 a barrel, up more than $7 from a year earlier, and gas prices more than doubling to an average of $6.46 per million British thermal units, the company saw costs rise by more than $500 million in the quarter. 

 Energy prices have remained high into this year. As a result, Dow said its earnings in the first-quarter would be between 25 and 40 cents a share, below analysts' forecasts of 47 cents. 

 Hoping for some recovery by the middle of the year, the company plans to focus on cutting costs and managing its working capital. 

 It also hopes to close its long-delayed acquisition of Union Carbide at some point. Expected to be completed by this time a year ago, the deal had yet to win regulatory approval, and worries have begun to spread that it won't be completed and may not have been a wise transaction. 

 But Parker appears confident the deal will be completed, telling analysts on Thursday he remained committed to the transaction and describing it as a "very good deal." 

 Union Carbide, meanwhile, has struggled with the same problems as Dow, DuPont and the rest of the chemical industry. It warned earlier this month that it would post a larger-than-expected loss in the fourth quarter, also citing soaring energy and raw material costs. 

 For the year, Dow posted net income of $1.5 billion, up from $1.3 billion in 1999. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1q074ga


 Evening Standard, London, Stock Markets Column 

 Michael Clark 
609 words
26 January 2001
Knight Ridder Tribune Business News - KRTBN
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2001 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 EMI OFF-KEY AS PROBE INTO CD PRICES LOOMS: Shares in Britain's biggest music maker, EMI Group, have hit a flat note with City investors and today fell 19 pence to 525 pence. This follows the European Commission's decision to investigate allegations that leading music companies are fixing artificially high prices for compact discs. 

 The five biggest companies settled with the US Federal Trade Commission last year after being accused of price fixing. 

 The FTC said it had cost consumers more than $480 million (UKpound 327 million) since 1997. The music companies could face huge fines. On learning of the probe broker Credit Lyonnais Securities downgraded its recommendation on EMI shares from "buy" to "add". 

 EMI shares have been in steady decline, dropping from a peak of 785 pence this time last year. In October, the EC delivered a further blow when it blocked the group's proposed UKpound 13 billion merger with Time Warner. The market is now awaiting the outcome of talks between EMI and German media giant Bertelsmann about a proposed merger of their respective music interests. 

 The rest of the equity market had that end-of-the-week feel to it. The FTSE 100 index fell 27.8 to 6227.8 despite a positive performance overnight by the Dow. 

 Industrial controls group Invensys firmed 1/2 pence to 186 pence. Dealers said it reflected the upbeat performance yesterday of its German subsidiary Baan, bought last year. Broker UBS Warburg has raised its target price on the shares to 250 pence. 

 British Energy advanced a further 8 pence to 233 pence. Broker ABN Amro has turned outright buyer of the shares. British Airways, 5 1/2 pence cheaper at 433 pence, has finally overtaken Railtrack, down 5 pence at 911 pence, as Britain's biggest transport group. BA carries a price tag of UKpound 4.77 billion, while Railtrack, which has slumped from almost 1200 pence since October, is valued at UKpound 4.72 billion. 

 Broker HSBC Securities has turned bearish on the outlook for growth in television advertising revenues. As a result it has slashed its pre-tax profit forecast for Carlton Communications for the current year to September from UKpound 157 million to UKpound 121 million, and for SMG from UKpound 56.5 million to UKpound 46.5 million. It is also warning that recently demerged Granada Media, 5 1/2 pence better at 3851/2 pence, will only break even this year compared with previous forecasts of UKpound 45 million profit. Carlton slipped 3 pence to 522 pence. SMG was 1/2 pence lighter at 232 pence. 

 A "buy" recommendation from Deutsche Bank was behind a rise of 14 1/2 pence to 658 1/2 pence in shares of drinks giant Diageo. Bookham Technology slumped 277 pence to 1030 pence after it warned of increased operating losses. The shares now stand just 90 pence above the level they were originally floated at last March by US securities house Goldman Sachs, having hit a peak of 5302 pence in July. 

 Hi-tech shares generally were making heavy weather of it, reflecting another thumping for the Nasdaq market, which was left nursing an overnight fall of more than 100 points. 

 There were gloomy trading updates from Corning and Ericsson. ARM Holdings fell 32 pence to 527 1/2 pence, Marconi 33 1/2 pence to 675 pence and Autonomy 95 pence to 2185 pence. 

 Marks & Spencer fell 8 3/4 pence to 212 1/4 pence. The shares were chased sharply higher this week despite another gloomy trading statement from the troubled retailer. 

Document krtbn00020010711dx1q00do5




 Tribune Posts 69% Drop in 4th-Quarter Net But Beats Reduced Expectations 

868 words
26 January 2001
13:23
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 CHICAGO -- Tribune Co. posted a steep drop in fourth-quarter net income, but results beat reduced forecasts as revenue nearly doubled largely on its Times Mirror Co. acquisition. 

 Washington Post Co., meanwhile, also reported a sharp decline in fourth-quarter profit but still came in ahead of expectations. 

 Tribune, which issued a profit warning last month amid a slowdown in advertising, said net income fell 69% to $39.7 million, or 11 cents a diluted share, from $126.4 million, or 47 cents a share, a year earlier. 

 However, the latest results included charges of $45.8 million, or eight cents a share, for a change in fair values of certain securities, and investment write-downs of $92.6 million, or 17 cents a share. Excluding those charges, the company would have posted earnings of 36 cents a share, compared with 44 cents a year earlier. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial expected earnings of 34 cents a share in the latest quarter. The company had been expected to post earnings of 37 cents a share prior to its profit warning last month. 

 Tribune (TRB), which owns the Los Angeles Times, the Chicago Tribune and nine other dailies, said its $6.5 billion acquisition of Times Mirror Co. in June resulted in a dilution of eight cents a share in the latest quarter. 

 Pro forma fourth-quarter operating profit, stated as if the Times Mirror acquisition had occurred at the beginning of 1999, rose 9% to $323 million. Pro-forma revenue rose 2% to $1.5 billion. 

 Revenue, boosted by the Times Mirror acquisition, jumped 96% to $1.5 billion from $765.5 million. 

 Revenue for its publishing business soared to $1.1 billion in the quarter from $412 million in 1999. Publishing Ebitda was $314 million, compared with $141 million a year ago. 

 On a pro-forma basis, however, fourth-quarter publishing revenue rose just 1% to $1.12 billion. Pro-forma publishing earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, was $314 million, compared with $313 million a year ago. 

 Tribune said revenue for broadcasting and entertainment, which includes television stations and the Chicago Cubs baseball team, in the latest quarter rose 6% to $371 million. The results were bolstered by acquisitions, improved performances at several WB-affiliated stations and at the WGN Superstation. Ebitda increased 9% to $152 million. 

 Interactive revenue was $13 million, up from $5 million in the 1999 fourth quarter, primarily on higher classified revenues. Interactive operating losses were $17 million in the quarter, widening from $12 million a year earlier. The lower losses were primarily due to higher revenues and cost control initiatives. 

 "Tribune's cash earnings have again shown solid growth, and demonstrate that our acquisition of Times Mirror was the right move to make at the right time," said John W. Madigan, chairman, president and chief executive officer, in a prepared statement. He also said the company's media assets, operating efficiencies and financial position give it an advantage in "a fragmenting marketplace" and positions it for further growth. 

 Looking ahead, Tribune reiterated guidance of 15% growth in earnings per share in 2001 to about $1.55 a share. A First Call/Thomson Financial survey produced a mean earning estimate of $1.54 for 2001. 

 Tribune's fiscal year 2000 was comprised of 53 weeks, compared with 52 weeks in 1999. The company said the effect of the additional week on the comparisons of the financial statements wasn't significant. 

 Separately, Washington Post (WPO) posted a 38% drop in net income to $37.7 million, or $3.98 a diluted share, from $61 million, or $6.09 as share, a year earlier. 

 The results include a charge of $16.5 million, or $1.74 a share, associated with the early retirement program at the Washington Post, the company's flagship newspaper. 

 Excluding the charge, the company would have earned $5.72 a share. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial were expecting earnings of $5.41. 

 Fourth-quarter revenue rose 12% to $671.4 million. 

 Operating income declined 24% to $90 million. 

 Washington Post attributed the earnings decline to an increase in new-business development costs, higher interest expense and a reduced pension credit. 

 The increased spending for new-business initiatives occurred mainly at Kaplan Inc., the company's test-preparation and education unit, and Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive, or WPNI. Kaplan opened 42 new Score! Educational Centers and expanded its distance-learning capabilities. WPNI increased marketing and sales initiatives for washingtonpost.com. 

 The company also absorbed greater losses from the development of Web-delivered recruiting and hiring management services at BrassRing, in which Kaplan holds a 42% interest. 

 The expenses were partially offset by higher operating results at the Washington Post and its television-broadcasting unit, the company said. 

 Fourth quarter operating revenue at the newspaper-publishing unit rose 2% to $237.8 million, but operating income at the unit fell 86% to $6 million. 

 Television-broadcasting operating revenue rose 15% to $107.7 million, and operating income gained 14% to $60.3 million. 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020010711dx1q00ap4




 Eastman Chemical Warns of 'Challenging' 2001 After Posting 4th-Quarter Profit 

232 words
26 January 2001
00:59
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 KINGSPORT, Tenn. -- Eastman Chemical Co. posted a fourth-quarter profit in line with estimates and issued a first-quarter warning, saying the company was preparing for a "challenging" 2001. 

 The chemicals maker reported net income of $52 million, or 68 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier net loss of $52 million, or 67 cents a share. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of 69 cents a share. Year-earlier earnings excluding items was 20 cents a share. 

 Aided by acquisitions, revenue rose 9.3% to $1.37 billion. 

 Eastman Chemical (EMN) expects first-quarter earnings of 48 cents a share. The First Call estimate was 83 cents a share. The company added, "With the slow start in the first quarter, it will be tough to duplicate year 2000 earnings in 2001." A year earlier, Eastman Chemical earned $68 million, or 88 cents a share, on sales of $1.22 billion. 

 During the second half of 2000, the company saw weaker demand, and Eastman Chemical said Thursday that higher feedstock costs and continuing tough economic conditions will make 2001 "another challenging year." The company expects to cut costs this year by $300 million on top of last year's $200 million. 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020010711dx1q00alq




 NRF 2001 Convention - Home Depot profits hit. 

45 words
26 January 2001
Retail Week
RETWEE
5
English
(c) 2001  RETAIL WEEK

 Home Depot has issued a fourth-quarter profit warning, marking what could potentially be its first quarterly earnings decline for 15 years. The retailer expects cold weather, high energy costs and a fall in spending to hit trading. 

Document retwee0020010714dx1q00098




 EMI OFF-KEY AS PROBE INTO CD PRICES LOOMS 

568 words
26 January 2001
The Evening Standard
NS
English
(c) 2001

 EMI OFF-KEY AS PROBE INTO CD PRICES LOOMS BY MICHAEL CLARKShares in Britain's biggest music maker, EMI Group, have hit a flat note with City investors and today fell 12p to 532p. This follows the European Commission's decision to investigate allegations that leading music companies are fixing artificially high prices for compact discs.The five biggest companies settled with the US Federal Trade Commission last year after being accused of price fixing. The FTC said it had cost consumers more than $480 million (#327 million) since 1997. The music companies could face huge fines. On learning of the probe, broker Credit Lyonnais Securities downgraded its recommendation on EMI shares from "buy" to "add".EMI shares have been in steady decline, dropping from a peak of 785p this time last year. In October, the EC delivered a further blow when it blocked the group's proposed #13 billion merger with Time Warner. 

  The market is now awaiting the outcome of talks between EMI and German media giant Bertelsmann about a proposed merger of their respective music interests.The rest of the equity market had that end-of-the-week feel to it. The FTSE 100 index fell 4.0 to 6251.6 despite a positive performance overnight by the Dow.Industrial controls group Invensys shaded 1p to 1841/2p. Dealers said it reflected the upbeat performance yesterday of its German subsidiary Baan, bought last year. Broker UBS Warburg has raised its target price on the shares to 250p.British Energy advanced a further 81/2p to 2331/2p. Broker ABN Amro has turned outright buyer of the shares. British Airways, 51/4p cheaper at 4323/4p, has finally overtaken Railtrack, 1p easier at 915p, as Britain's biggest transport group. BA carries a price tag of #4.77 billion, while Railtrack, which has slumped from almost 1200p since October, is valued at #4.72 billion.Broker HSBC Securities has turned bearish on the outlook for growth in television advertising revenues. As a result it has slashed its pre-tax profit forecast for Carlton Communications for the current year to September from #157 million to #121 million, and for SMG from #56.5 million to #46.5 million. It is also warning that recently demerged Granada Media, 3/4p better at 3803/4p, will only break even this year compared with previous forecasts of #45 million profit. Carlton rose 1p to 526p. SMG was 1/2p lighter at 232p.A "buy" recommendation from Deutsche Bank was behind a rise of 14p to 658p in shares of drinks giant Diageo. Bookham Technology slumped 257p to 1050p after it warned of increased operating losses. The shares now stand just 90p above the level at which they were floated last March by US securities house Goldman Sachs, having hit a peak of 5302p in July. Hi-tech shares generally were making heavy weather of it, reflecting the overnight setback for the Nasdaq market in the US. There were gloomy trading updates from Corning and Ericsson. ARM Holdings fell 271/2p to 532p, Marconi dropped 241/2p to 684p and Autonomy retreated 80p to 2200p.Marks & Spencer fell 83/4p to 2121/4p. The shares were chased sharply higher this week despite another gloomy trading statement. An American valuation fund has been buying them, forcing the bears to close their positions. 

Document ns00000020010714dx1q001q4




 BRIDGE TOP NEWS NOW - MOF says U" slowdown may  cut  Japan growth. 

888 words
26 January 2001
04:45
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 25, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 Greenspan sees need for tax cuts, warns economy slowing 

 Washington-Jan. 25-In a statement likely to be welcomed by the Bush administration, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said the United States will need tax cuts in the next several years as federal budget surpluses grow dramatically. The central banker's view in recent years has been that the best way to handle the emerging surpluses was to keep using them to pay back federal debt. In a speech before the Senate Budget Committee, Greenspan also said the U.S. economy has slowed dramatically. "We are probably very close to zero" now in terms of economic growth, he said. ( Story .5970 ) 

 Qualcomm may cancel offering of stock in semiconductor business 

 New York-Jan. 25-Shaky financial markets may force Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM), The developer of CDMA wireless communications technology, to cancel a public offering of shares in its semiconductor business. The warning came as Qualcomm reported a fiscal first-quarter operating profit of $231.6 million, or $209.6 million, up 10% from a year earlier. The company reported earnings per share of 29 cents, up from 27 cents a year earlier and a penny better than Wall Street analysts expected. ( Story .5978 ) 

 California to negotiate on prices received in power auction 

 Santa Fe, N.M.-Jan. 25-California is negotiating to improve on the average offer of $69 Mw/hr received this week in an electronic auction for long-term supply, California Governor Gray Davis said. The new contracts should be signed in a weekto 10 days, he said. ( Story .23519 ) 

 Nasdaq ends down 3.67% after late rally, Dow Jones up 

 New York-Jan. 25-The Nasdaq fell more than 3% as selling pressure set in after recent gains. The decline in technology stocks gave the Dow industrials a boost, however, as investors rotated money into cyclical, drug and retail stocks. Meanwhile, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's comments before the Senate Budget Committee offered hope of an aggressive rate cut next week, some analysts said. The Nasdaq closed down 104.82, or 3.67%, to 2754.33 and the Dow was up 82.55 to 10,729.52. The S&P 500 was down 6.79 to 1357.51. ( Story .1300 ) 

 RJ Reynolds net tops views; judge calls mistrial in asbestos case 

 Kansas City-Jan. 25-R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings (RJR) topped Wall Street's fourth-quarter profit projections, and the company raised earnings guidance for the first quarter despite forecasting declining volumes. The results came as a federal judge declared a mistrial in a suit seeking to hold R.J. Reynolds, Philip Morris Cos. and other cigarette makers responsible for paying a share of the health care claims of former asbestos workers who smoked. ( Story .5977 ) 

 MOF's Miyazawa says US econ slowdown may cut Japan's growth 0.4%-0.6% 

 Tokyo-Jan. 26-A slowing of U.S. gross domestic product growth from 5% to 2%-3% would likely lower Japan's annual GDP growth rate by 0.4-0.6 percentage points, Japan's Minister of Finance Kiichi Miyazawa said. However, Miyazawa added that he would not be concerned if the United States experienced 0% growth in any one quarter because he still expects the United States to enjoy annual growth of 2%-3% in calendar year 2001. ( Story .24560 ) 

 Japan Tokyo CPI down unadjusted 0.4% on year in January 

 Tokyo-Jan. 26-The preliminary consumer price index for the Tokyo metropolitan area in January stood at 100.5, down 0.4% from a year earlier, and unchanged from the previous month, the Ministry of Public Management, Home Affairs, Posts and Telecommunications announced. The nationwide CPI in December was down 0.2% on year and unchanged on month, the ministry said. ( Story .1588 ) 

 US labor costs show smallest increase since Q3 1999 

 Washington-Jan. 25-The cost of employing a U.S. worker rose a seasonally adjusted 0.8% in the final quarter of 2000, the smallest increase since the third quarter of 1999, the Labor Department said. During 2000, the increase in the employment cost index decelerated in each quarter. The rise in the employment cost index was below economists' expectations of 1.1%. The index was up 4.1% from a year ago, less than the 4.4% advance analysts had expected. ( Story .5972 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 Strong tremors rock New Delhi; no word on casualties, damage 

 New Delhi-Jan. 26-Strong tremors rocked the Indian capital but there were no immediate reports of casualties or damage. The tremors began around 0850 local time (0320 GMT) but the intensity or epicenter of the earthquake was not immediately clear. Tremors were also felt in Mumbai, the nation's financial hub, according to India.com. ( Story .24613 ) 

 Eli Lilly fourth-quarter earnings meet expectations 

 New York-Jan. 25-Eli Lilly & Co.'s (LLY) net income for the fourth quarter was $767.3 .illion, or 70 cents a share, a 14% increase on the fourth quarter a year ago. Fourth-quarter sales of its Zyprexa schizophrenia drug were up 18% from a year earlier, which more than compensated for slowing sales of Prozac. ( Story .5973 ) 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1q008g8




 BRIDGE TOP NEWS NOW - Miyazawa says US slowdown may  cut  Japan ... 

888 words
26 January 2001
04:44
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 25, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 Greenspan sees need for tax cuts, warns economy slowing 

 Washington-Jan. 25-In a statement likely to be welcomed by the Bush administration, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said the United States will need tax cuts in the next several years as federal budget surpluses grow dramatically. The central banker's view in recent years has been that the best way to handle the emerging surpluses was to keep using them to pay back federal debt. In a speech before the Senate Budget Committee, Greenspan also said the U.S. economy has slowed dramatically. "We are probably very close to zero" now in terms of economic growth, he said. ( Story .5970 ) 

 Qualcomm may cancel offering of stock in semiconducto2 business 

 New York-Jan. 25-Shaky financial markets may force Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM), The developer of CDMA wireless communications technology, to cancel a public offering of shares in its semiconductor business. The warning came as Qualcomm reported a fiscal first-quarter operating profit of $231.6 million, or $209.6 million, up 10% from a year earlier. The company reported earnings per share of 29 cents, up from 27 cents a year earlier and a penny better than Wall Street analysts expected. ( Story .5978 ) 

 California to negotiate on prices received in power auction 

 Santa Fe, N.M.-Jan. 25-California is negotiating to improve on the average offer of $69 Mw/hr received this week in an electronic auction for long-term supply, California Governor Gray Davis said. The new contracts should be signed in a week to 10 days, he said. ( Story .23519 ) 

 Nasdaq ends down 3.67% after late rally, Dow Jones up 

 New York-Jan. 25-The Nasdaq fell more than 3% as selling pressure set in after recent gains. The decline in technology stocks gave the Dow industrials a boost, however, as investors rotated money into cyclical, drug and retail stocks. Meanwhile, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's comments before the Senate Budget Committee offered hope of an aggressive rate cut next week, some analysts said. The Nasdaq closed down 104.82, or 3.67%, to 2754.33 and the Dow was up 82.55 to 10,729.52. The S&P 500 was down 6.79 to 1357.51. ( Story .1300 ) 

 RJ Reynolds net tops views; judge calls mistrial in asbestos case 

 Kansas City-Jan. 25-R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings (RJR) topped Wall Street's fourth-quartur profit projections, and the company raised earnings guidance for the first quarter despite forecasting declining volumes. The results came as a federal judge declared a mistrial in a suit seeking to hold R.J. Reynolds, Philip Morris Cos. and other cigarette makers responsible for paying a share of the health care claims of former asbestos workers who smoked. ( Story .5977 ) 

 MOF's Miyazawa says US econ slowdown may cut Japan's growth 0.4%-0.6% 

 Tokyo-Jan. 26-A slowing of U.S. gross domestic product growth from 5% to 2%-3% would likely lower Japan's annual GDP growth rate by 0.4-0.6 percentage points, Japan's Minister of Finance Kiichi Miyazawa said. However, Miyazawa added that he would not be concerned if the United States experienced 0% growth in any one quarter because he still expects the United States to enjoy annual growth of 2%-3% in calendar year 2001. ( Story .24560 ) 

 Japan Tokyo CPI down unadjusted 0.4% on year in January 

 Tokyo-Jan. 26-The preliminary consumer price index for the Tokyo metropolitan area in January stood at 100.5, down 0.4% from a year earlier, and unchanged from the previous month, the Ministry of Public Management, Home Affairs, Posts and Telecommunications announced. The nationwide CPI in December was down 0.2% on year and unchanged on month, the ministry said. ( Story .1588 ) 

 US labor costs show smallest increase since Q3 1999 

 Washington-Jan. 25-The cost of employing a U.S. worker rose a seasonally adjusted 0.8% in the final quarter of 2000, the smallest increase since the third quarter of 1999, the Labor Department said. During 2000, the increa3e in the employment cost index decelerated in each quarter. The rise in the employment cost index was below economists' expectations of 1.1%. The index was up 4.1% from a year ago, less than the 4.4% advance analysts had expected. ( Story .5972 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 Strong tremors rock New Delhi; no word on casualties, damage 

 New Delhi-Jan. 26-Strong tremors rocked the Indian capital but there were no immediate reports of casualties or damage. The tremors began around 0850 local time (0320 GMT) but the intensity or epicenter of the earthquake was not immediately clear. Tremors were also felt in Mumbai, the nation's financial hub, according to India.com. ( Story .24613 ) 

 Eli Lilly fourth-quarter earnings meet expectations 

 New York-Jan. 25-Eli Lilly & Co.'s (LLY) net income for the fourth quarter was $767.3 million, or 70 cents a share, a 14% increase on the fourth quarter a year ago. Fourth-quarter sales of its Zyprexa schizophrenia drug were up 18% from a year earlier, which more than compensated for slowing sales of Prozac. ( Story .5973 ) 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1q008g4




 BRIDGE TOP NEWS NOW - Qualcomm may cancel chip-unit spinoff. 

910 words
26 January 2001
00:31
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 25, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 Greenspan sees need for tax cuts, warns economy slowing 

 Washington-Jan. 25-In a statement likely to be welcomed by the Bush administration, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said the United States will need tax cuts in the next several years as federal budget surpluses grow dramatically. The central banker's view in recent years has been that the best way to handle the emerging surpluses was to keep using them to pay back federal debt. In a speech bef.re the Senate Budget Committee, Greenspan also said the U.S. economy has slowed dramatically. "We are probably very close to zero" now in terms of economic growth, he said. ( Story .5970 ) 

 Qualcomm may cancel offering of stock in semiconductor business 

 New York-Jan. 25-Shaky financial markets may force Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM), the developer of CDMA wireless communications technology, to cancel a public offering of shares in its semiconductor business. The warning came as Qualcomm reported a fiscal first-quarter operating profit of $231.6 million, or $209.6 million, up 10% from a year earlier. The company reported earnings per share of 29 cents, up from 27 cents a year earlier and a penny better than Wall Street analysts expected. ( Story .5978 ) 

 Nasdaq ends down 3% after late rally, Dow Jones up 

 New York-Jan. 25-The Nasdaq fell more than 3% as selling pressure set in after recent gains. The decline in technology stocks gave the Dow industrials a boost, however, as investors rotated money into cyclical, drug and retail stocks. Meanwhile, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's comments before the Senate Budget Committee offered hope of an aggressive rate cut next week, some analysts said. The Nasdaq closed down 104.82, or 3.67%, to 2754.33 and the Dow was up 82.55 to 10,729.52. The S&P 500 was down 6.79 to 1357.51. ( Story .1300 ) 

 RJ Reynolds net tops views; judge calls mistrial in asbestos case 

 Kansas City-Jan. 25-R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings (RJR) topped Wall Street's fourth-quarter profit projections, and the company raised earnings guidance for the first quarter despite forecastin. declining volumes. The results came as a federal judge declared a mistrial in a suit seeking to hold R.J. Reynolds, Philip Morris Cos. and other cigarette makers responsible for paying a share of the health care claims of former asbestos workers who smoked. ( Story .5977 ) 

 JDS Uniphase beats expectations, warns of lower sales 

 New York-Jan. 25-JDS Uniphase Corp. (JDSU), which makes fiber-optic components used in telecommunications and cable TV equipment, said earnings for its second quarter beat Wall Street estimates and were more than double 1999 levels. Net income for the second quarter was $208 million, or 21 cents a share, compared with $84 million, or 9 cents, in the same period in 1999. Analysts had expected earning of 19 cents a share. ( Story .5979 ) 

 Kellogg sales fall as customers reduce inventories 

 Kansas City-Jan. 25-As cereal maker Kellogg Co. (K) waited for an injection of energy from its takeover of Keebler Foods, its sales fell 2% in the fourth quarter, disappointing investors who had expected a small increase. Sales fell to $1.56 billion from $1.59 billion a year earlier as customers 

 reduced their inventories. However, one-time tax credits helped the company's profits rise 4%, slightly exceeding Wall Street expectations. ( Story .5974 ) 

 Japan Tokyo CPI down unadjusted 0.4% on year in January 

 Tokyo-Jan. 26-The preliminary consumer price index (CPI) for the Tokyo metropolitan area in January stood at 100.5, down 0.4% from a year earlier, and unchanged from the previous month, the Ministry of Public Management, Home Affairs, Posts and Telecommunications annoonced. The nationwide CPI in December was down 0.2% on year and unchanged on month, the ministry said. ( Story .1588 ) 

 US labor costs show smallest increase since Q3 1999 

 Washington-Jan. 25-The cost of employing a U.S. worker rose a seasonally adjusted 0.8% in the final quarter of 2000, the smallest increase since the third quarter of 1999, the Labor Department said. During 2000, the increase in the employment cost index decelerated in each quarter. The rise in the employment cost index was below economists' expectations of 1.1%. The index was up 4.1% from a year ago, less than the 4.4% advance analysts had expected. ( Story .5972 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 Eli Lilly fourth-quarter earnings meet expectations 

 New York-Jan. 25-Eli Lilly & Co.'s (LLY) net income for the fourth quarter was $767.3 million, or 70 cents a share, a 14% increase on the fourth quarter a year ago. Fourth-quarter sales of its Zyprexa schizophrenia drug were up 18% from a year earlier, which more than compensated for slowing sales of Prozac. ( Story .5973 ) 

 Dow Chemical Q4 earnings slip on rising energy costs 

 New York-Jan. 25-The Dow Chemical Company (DOW), the second-largest chemical group in the United States, said 2000 fourth-quarter net earnings slipped to $243 million, or 36 cents per share, compared with $267 million, or 40 cents per share, in 1999, following a rise in energy costs. The company expects "challenging" conditions, including a volatile oil price and slowing U.S. economy, to continue in the first half. ( Story .12348) 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1q008fp




 Sony halves its profit estimates. 

 Laura Randall 
616 words
26 January 2001
Hollywood Reporter
HLYW
1
ISSN: 0018-3660; Volume 366; Issue 36
English
 Copyright 2001 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved. COPYRIGHT 2001 VNU Business Media 

 Sony Corp.'s PlayStation 2 game console continued to wreak havoc on the company's financial position Thursday as the Japanese conglomerate cut its fiscal 2001 profit forecast in half and posted a sharp 23% drop in third-quarter earnings. 

 Despite revenue gains at its consumer electronics business and the boxoffice success of "Charlie's Angels" and "Vertical Limit," Sony said its profit for the three months to Dec. 31 fell to [yen]72.2 billion ($628 million) from a year-earlier [yen]93.6 billion. The company blamed the steep drop on a combination of losses from its games business and a write-off of film expenses related to changes in U.S. accounting standards. 

 Revenue for the quarter rose 10% to [yen]2.1 trillion ($18 billion), a surge the company said was fueled by strong demand for consumer electronics items -- notably digital cameras, personal computers, televisions and semiconductors. 

 Sony Corp. officials warned Thursday that the games unit will have a bigger-than-expected full-year operating loss. As a result, Sony anticipates an annual profit of [yen]5 billion ($40 million) instead of the [yen]10 billion it projected earlier. The company also cut its fiscal 2001 shipment target for PlayStation 2 consoles to 9 million from 10 million. Sony's fiscal year ends March 31. 

 The reduced shipment estimate did not come as a big surprise to analysts tracking the video games industry. PlayStation 2 has been marked by supply problems since before its U.S. debut in the fall. But demand for the console remains strong, said John Taylor, a video games industry analyst at Arcadia Investment Corp. 

 "There's certainly no problem on the demand side," Taylor said. "Everyone still wants the product." 

 Sony said it shipped 6.4 million PlayStation 2 units worldwide during the nine months to Dec. 31. 

 Despite the strong PlayStation 2 demand, Sony chief financial officer Teruhisa Tokunaka said during a conference call Thursday that the company does not expect its games division to return to profitability until the middle of fiscal 2002. 

 For the third quarter, the games unit posted an operating loss of [yen]13.9 billion ($121 million), compared with operating income of [yen]57.5 billion the previous year. Sales fell 2% to [yen]235.2 billion ($2 billion). 

 Sony posted an 11% decrease in music sales, a slide the company attributed to slumping demand in international markets, delays of new releases and increased costs at its digital media business. The company said this was offset somewhat by the success of strong album sales including Sade's "Lovers Rock," which ranks No. 6 on the Billboard 200 and has sold 1.9 million units; Ricky Martin's "Sound Loaded," No. 44 with 1.2 million units to date; and the Offspring's "Conspiracy of One," No. 58 with about 800,000 copies sold. Sony is counting on Tuesday's release of the Jennifer Lopez album "J. Lo" to sell big and boost music sales during the current quarter. 

 The company's film business fared better, recording an 8% sales increase to [yen]141.3 billion ($1.2 billion). The unit posted an operating loss of [yen]2.3 billion ($20 million), largely because of new accounting standards that require companies to write off film expenses immediately as they happen, Sony said. 

 Sony released the earnings after the Japanese markets closed Thursday. Its American Depository Receipts closed 1.5% higher at 74 despite the profit warning and income drop. 

FULL TEXT VNU eMedia, Inc. THIS IS THE FULL TEXT: COPYRIGHT 2001 VNU Business Media Subscription: $175.00 per year. Published daily (5 times a week).

Document hlyw000020010711dx1q0013b




 UPDATE 1-Furniture Brands posts lower Q4, warns on Q1. 

505 words
25 January 2001
15:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 ST. LOUIS, Jan 25 (Reuters) - Furniture Brands International , the No. 1 U.S. furniture maker, on Thursday said its fourth-quarter income fell 16.6 percent and warned that a slowdown in consumer spending would crimp first-quarter profits. 

 Furniture Brands' latest earnings warning marks the third time in three months the company has said that a slowing economy would squeeze financial results. 

 Net earnings for the fourth quarter ended Dec. 31 were $24.3 million, or 48 cents per diluted share, compared with $29.2 million, or 58 cents a diluted share, a year earlier. 

 Despite the profit drop and earnings warning, shares of St. Louis-based Furniture Brands rose $1-2/16, or almost 5 percent, to $23-13/16 in mid-morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock set a new 52-week high of $24 earlier in the day. 

 Excluding noncash charges for depreciation and amortization related to a 1992 asset revaluation and before the extraordinary item, the company would have reported diluted net earnings per common share of 53 cents for the fourth quarter. 

 Sales in the 2000 fourth quarter fell 0.3 percent to $519.4 million. 

 "Like many other segments of the domestic economy, we had favorable sales and earnings comparisons for the first half, but saw a significant slowdown during the second half," said W. G. "Mickey" Holliman, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, in a statement. 

 Fears over a slowing economy has forced many consumers to cut back purchases on big-ticket items such as furniture and appliances in recent quarters. 

 Furniture Brands said inventory levels at the end of the third quarter were over $30 million higher than budgeted levels but said levels are now generally back in line with incoming orders, some $31 million less than at the end of the last quarter. 

 In this year's first quarter, the company said it sees a profit of 50 to 55 cents a share, below analysts' consensus estimate of 56 cents as compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial. For the full year 2001, the company projects earnings to be $2.25 to $2.35 a share, compared with a First Call estimate of $2.23 a share. 

 Sales in the first quarter are also expected to trail those of a year ago, the company said. However, assuming an expected improvement of business conditions in the second half, the company expects sales for the full year 2001 to be modestly higher than in 2000. 

 "We continue to see weakness in consumer spending in our sector," Holliman said. "We believe the current soft economic conditions will continue through the first quarter of 2001 and perhaps through the first half and we have planned our operating activities accordingly." 

 He said the company's recent strategic steps, including realigning its dealer base, increasing dedicated retail space, and expanding its sourcing strategy to include a growing import system, have positioned it well for the current business environment. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1p074pm




 UPDATE 2-Dow Jones has Q4 loss on Bridge investment. 

 By Jennifer Laidlaw 
652 words
25 January 2001
22:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 25 (Reuters) - Dow Jones & Co. , publisher of the Wall Street Journal, said on Thursday it had a net loss in the fourth quarter as it wrote off its remaining investment in financially struggling Bridge Information Systems. 

 Dow Jones reported a preliminary net loss of $19 million, or 22 cents a share, compared with net income of $60.9 million, or 67 cents, in the year-earlier period. 

 The figure included two write-offs: $84.1 million, or 96 cents a share, for Bridge and $12.1 million, or 14 cents a share, for OptiMark Technologies Inc. Dow Jones acquired a stake in Bridge when it sold its Telerate unit to the company in 1998. 

 The media concern said its fourth quarter results are preliminary as it may have to open additional reserves for its investment in Bridge as a result of Bridge's operating and financial difficulties, which have included difficulties in meeting credit agreements. Bridge has said that it is trying to renegotiate its financial arrangements with its lenders and raise additional capital, Dow Jones said. 

 Dow Jones said it retained a minority interest previously held by Telerate in OptiMark. 

 Excluding the Bridge and OptiMark write-off, Dow Jones' fourth-quarter profit totaled $73.4 million, or 83 cents a share, compared with $77.2 million, or 85 cents a share, excluding one-time charges, in 1999. 

 That was a penny short of Wall Street's consensus estimate of 84 cents a share, as compiled by research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. Analysts cut their estimates from 92 cents a share in early December when Dow Jones issued an earnings warning for the fourth quarter. 

 The company's shares closed at $59-11/16 on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday, up 1.6 percent, or 15/16. They have traded at a 52-week low of $51-3/8 last month and a 52-week high of $77-5/16 in June. 

 Dow Jones shares have outperformed most of its competitors over the past year, although it has begun to lag since it issued its profit warning in December. 

 Dow Jones Chairman and Chief Executive Peter Kann said that, apart from Bridge, the outlook was good. "Our continuing businesses enter 2001 poised for significant continued growth as soon as macroeconomic conditions permit," he said in a statement. 

 The company's revenues totaled $587.98 million, slightly up from $586.66 million in the year-earlier period. Newspaper publishers, which depend heavily on ad revenues, have generally had a tough fourth quarter as the slowing U.S. economy has tempered demand for advertising. 

 The dot-com boom and bust has also dented ad sales as high-spending Internet companies that previously threw money on advertising have either gone out of business or had their funding cut. 

 Dow Jones said that revenues at its print publishing segment declined 3 percent in the fourth quarter to $379.4 million while ad linage at the Wall Street Journal fell 9 percent on a per-issue basis during the quarter. 

 The company's Chief Financial Officer Jerry Bailey told an investor conference call that advertising linage in 2001 could fall as much as 5 percent at the Wall Street Journal and the weekly Barron's newspaper and 3 percent at its Ottaway community newspapers, assuming economic uncertainty throughout the first half of the year. 

 But Bailey, who announced he was leaving the company back in September and is being replaced by Richard Zannino on Feb. 12, noted that if an economic recovery begins in the second quarter, linage would be flat for the year. 

 He said that January linage would be down slightly more than the 24 percent decline the company saw in December on a per issue basis. 

 (Additional reporting by Derek Caney in New York). 

Document lba0000020010713dx1p073ed




 UPDATE 3-Dow profits drop, warns about outlook. 

 By Paul Thomasch 
536 words
25 January 2001
18:47
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 (Recasts, new throughout, adds byline, previous MIDLAND, Mich.) 

 NEW YORK, Jan 25 (Reuters) - Dow Chemical Co., the No. 2 U.S. chemical company, said Thursday its fourth-quarter income fell 9 percent, while warning the high raw material costs and slowing economy which hurt it last year would continue to haunt the company in months to come. 

 Echoing comments by DuPont Co. and other chemical concerns, Midland, Mich.-based Dow said that the sharp rise in prices for crude oil natural gas took a toll on its bottom line in the fourth-quarter. 

 The story will likely be the same in the first quarter, the company said, warning that it would miss current profit forecasts. 

 Mike Parker, who took over as the company's president and chief executive officer in November, cautioned the first half of 2001 would be "very very challenging." 

 "The major story for our industry will continue to be hydrocarbon and energy prices," he said on a conference call after the company posted lower fourth-quarter earnings. 

 Net income for Dow, which is acquiring Union Carbide Corp., fell to $243 million, or 36 cents a diluted share, from $267 million, or 40 a share, in the same period a year earlier, the company said. 

 The year-earlier period involved special charges, including charges for restructuring, which cut earnings by 10 cents a share. 

 Dow's earnings matched analysts' expectations of 36 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks estimates. Its stock rose 5/8 to $32-5/8 on the New York Stock Exchange at mid-afternoon. 

 Sales for the quarter rose to $5.3 billion from $5.2 billion. 

 With oil for the quarter averaging nearly $32 a barrel, up more than $7 from a year earlier, and gas prices more than doubling to an average of $6.46 per million British thermal units, the company saw costs rise by more than $500 million in the quarter. 

 Energy prices have remained high into this year. As a result, Dow said its earnings in the first-quarter would be between 25 and 40 cents a share, below analysts' forecasts of 47 cents. 

 Hoping for some recovery by the middle of the year, the company plans to focus on cutting costs and managing its working capital. 

 It also hopes to close its long-delayed acquisition of Union Carbide at some point. Expected to be completed by this time a year ago, the deal had yet to win regulatory approval, and worries have begun to spread that it won't be completed and may not have been a wise transaction. 

 But Parker appears confident the deal will be completed, telling analysts on Thursday he remained committed to the transaction and describing it as a "very good deal." 

 Union Carbide, meanwhile, has struggled with the same problems as Dow, DuPont and the rest of the chemical industry. It warned earlier this month that it would post a larger-than-expected loss in the fourth quarter, also citing soaring energy and raw material costs. 

 For the year, Dow posted net income of $1.5 billion, up from $1.3 billion in 1999. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1p072ma




 UPDATE 4-Dow profits drop, warns about outlook. 

 By Paul Thomasch 
525 words
25 January 2001
22:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 25 (Reuters) - Dow Chemical Co. , the No. 2 U.S. chemical company, said Thursday its fourth-quarter income fell 9 percent, while warning the high raw material costs and slowing economy which hurt it last year would continue to haunt the company in months to come. 

 Echoing comments by DuPont Co. and other chemical concerns, Midland, Mich.-based Dow said that the sharp rise in prices for crude oil natural gas took a toll on its bottom line in the fourth-quarter. 

 The story will likely be the same in the first quarter, the company said, warning that it would miss current profit forecasts. 

 Mike Parker, who took over as the company's president and chief executive officer in November, cautioned the first half of 2001 would be "very very challenging." 

 "The major story for our industry will continue to be hydrocarbon and energy prices," he said on a conference call after the company posted lower fourth-quarter earnings. 

 Net income for Dow, which is acquiring Union Carbide Corp. , fell to $243 million, or 36 cents a diluted share, from $267 million, or 40 a share, in the same period a year earlier, the company said. 

 The year-earlier period involved special charges, including charges for restructuring, which cut earnings by 10 cents a share. 

 Dow's earnings matched analysts' expectations of 36 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks estimates. Its stock rose 3/8 to $32-3/8 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Sales for the quarter rose to $5.3 billion from $5.2 billion. 

 With oil for the quarter averaging nearly $32 a barrel, up more than $7 from a year earlier, and gas prices more than doubling to an average of $6.46 per million British thermal units, the company saw costs rise by more than $500 million in the quarter. 

 Energy prices have remained high into this year. As a result, Dow said its earnings in the first-quarter would be between 25 and 40 cents a share, below analysts' forecasts of 47 cents. 

 Hoping for some recovery by the middle of the year, the company plans to focus on cutting costs and managing its working capital. 

 It also hopes to close its long-delayed acquisition of Union Carbide at some point. Expected to be completed by this time a year ago, the deal had yet to win regulatory approval, and worries have begun to spread that it won't be completed and may not have been a wise transaction. 

 But Parker appears confident the deal will be completed, telling analysts on Thursday he remained committed to the transaction and describing it as a "very good deal." 

 Union Carbide, meanwhile, has struggled with the same problems as Dow, DuPont and the rest of the chemical industry. It warned earlier this month that it would post a larger-than-expected loss in the fourth quarter, also citing soaring energy and raw material costs. 

 For the year, Dow posted net income of $1.5 billion, up from $1.3 billion in 1999. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1p0727y




BUSINESS
Lucent to  cut  as many as 16,000 jobs News comes as it reports $1 billion loss

LINDA A. JOHNSON; Associated Press   
570 words
25 January 2001
Houston Chronicle
HOU
3 STAR
3
English
Copyright 2001. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

TRENTON, N.J.- Lucent Technologies is cutting up to 16,000 jobs in a drastic bid to restore it to its former glory after a year of blunders, including another disappointing profit report Wednesday.

The communications equipment maker's decision to reduce its worldwide work force of 123,000 by up to 13 percent is the main thrust of a plan to slash $2 billion a year in operating costs.

Lucent detailed the widely expected reorganization as it revealed a $1.02 billion loss for the final three months of 2000, the sixth time in a year the former AT&T unit has come up shy of public forecasts.

The latest humiliation may mean the worst is over for the company, which was a Wall Street favorite after its spinoff four years ago.

The timing of the spinoff - just as the Internet boom was starting - seemed impeccable for a company already blessed with big-name customers like AT&T and the cutting-edge technology of the famed Bell Labs research unit.

Since AT&T distributed Lucent shares to its broad base of traditionally conservative stockholders, Lucent was the first taste - maybe the only taste - of the fast-paced technology market for millions of investors.

After the spinoff, Lucent bought up dozens of telecommunications and software companies to broaden its business, mushrooming into 11 units.

After four years of lightning expansion and soaring stock prices, its fortunes nose-dived as it misjudged the market for fiber-optic network equipment used by telephone and Internet service providers.

Early last year, Lucent shocked analysts by warning that it would miss its earnings target, partly because rival Nortel Networks had beaten it to market with faster optical telecommunications equipment. The profit warnings continued throughout 2000, prompting the ouster of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard McGinn in October.

"We allowed the extraordinary expectations generated by Wall Street to set goals for us that we could not meet," said Henry Schacht, Lucent's new chairman and chief executive. "We tried to run the company too hot."

The downsizing plan calls for 10,000 positions to be eliminated. Most will come through layoffs, some through retirements and some through normal attrition.

In addition, up to 6,000 jobs may be lost as part of a plan to sell factory operations in Oklahoma and Ohio to other companies, then hire the companies as contractors. Lucent said it expects the contractors to hire a majority of the workers affected, however.

Lucent's work force will fall by another 16,500 jobs as part of a previously announced plan to spin off its Agere microelectronics unit as an independent company.

In Wednesday's trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Lucent rose 81 cents to $19.63, up more than 50 percent from its recent lows but less than a quarter of the stock's peak value of $84.18 in December 1999.

Analyst Paul Sagawa of Sanford C. Bernstein predicted that Lucent will benefit from Wall Street's lowered expectations and regain its strength.

"They've got good technology," he said. "They also have strong relations with the customers that matter most, the big, old-line telecommunications carriers," which have far more cash than Internet and data service providers.

Document HOU0000020120818dx1p022kw


 Business 
 MONEYLINE; CNNfn 

 Stuart Varney, Willow Bay, Peter Viles, Greg Clarkin, John Metaxas, Bruce Francis, Allan Chernoff, Susan Lisovicz, Myron Kandel, Steve Young 
7,940 words
25 January 2001
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  I`m Willow Bay in Los Angeles. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  And I`m Stuart Varney in New York. 

 We begin tonight with a significant shift from Alan Greenspan on a politically explosive issue: tax cuts. The Federal Reserve chairman today testified before the Senate Budget Committee, saying we can and should cut taxes sooner rather than later. He also gave a gloomy assessment on the economy, offering investors hope that Fed policy makers will slash interest rates again next week, possibly by a half-point. 

 But Greenspan`s comments did not spark a rally across the board on Wall Street. The Dow gained a respectable 82 points, closing at 10,729. But the Nasdaq plunged nearly 105, that`s more than 3 1/2 percent. It closed out the session at 2754, hurt by big losses in fiber-optic stocks. 

 We have complete coverage of Greenspan`s testimony and the market reaction with Greg Clarkin, John Metaxas and Peter Viles in Washington. We begin with Peter. 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Stuart, for years, Alan Greenspan has come to Capitol Hill and told Congress that the best use of a budget surplus is to pay down debt; today, a significant change. He says the surplus is now so big that you can do both: pay down debt and cut taxes. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 VILES (voice-over): For the first time in the second Bush era, Alan Greenspan came to Capitol Hill and showed his thinking has changed with the times. "The budget surplus is so big, and federal debt shrinking so quickly," he said, "that phased-in tax cuts are now good policy to make sure the government doesn`t end up with too much money." 

 GREENSPAN: Starting that process sooner rather than later, likely would help smooth the transition to longer-term fiscal balance. And should current economic weakness spread beyond what now appears likely, having a tax cut in place may, in fact, do noticeable good. 

 VILES: Greenspan declined to comment on President Bush`s plans for a tax cut, but this was a significant shift from his past emphasis on debt reduction. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Alan Greenspan delivered an important holiday  gift -- or honeymoon gift, for the Bush administration. 

 VILES: But citing his own experience, fighting the 1975 recession in the Ford administration, Greenspan argued that interest rate cuts, and not tax cuts, are the best way to fend off a recession. 

 GREENSPAN: While a tax cut may not have been useful for purposes of fending off that state, it clearly would be useful in bringing us out of  it far more quickly. It`s insurance in that regard. 

 VILES: Democrats on the committee voiced surprise and even disappointment with Greenspan`s embrace of tax cuts. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You`re going to start a stampede here this morning, I can tell you right now. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It wouldn`t be far off the mark for the press to carry the story, "Greenspan Takes Lid Off of Punch Bowl. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Today, I`m a little disconcerted. 

 VILES: Greenspan ducked questions about upcoming interest rate cuts, but gave this assessment of economic growth: 

 GREENSPAN: We have had a very dramatic slowing down, and indeed, we are probably very close to zero at this particular moment. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VILES: Now, Greenspan said he does not believe the U.S. economy has tipped into recession. But he also said, knowing when an economy has gone into recession is one of the hardest calls for an economist to make. On another subject: energy; he said the problems in California and the problems in the natural gas problems are not aberrations. He said they are part of a national issue that requires a quick national solution -- Stuart 

 VARNEY: All right, Peter Viles in Washington, thank you. 

 Later on MONEYLINE, we`ll talk to Senator Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, and we will ask him directly: does the Greenspan reversal mean we will get a tax cut? 

 BAY: Now, the possibility of a tax cut and an interest rate cut sounds like a dream scenario for Wall Street. But, as we noted, it ended up being a mixed day for the markets. Greg Clarkin joins us now from the New York Stock Exchange -- Greg. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Willow, while this, indeed, was a dose of good news for Wall Street this afternoon from the Fed chairman, and now, while the chairman did not get specific about interest rates, Wall Street really heard what it wanted to hear. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CLARKIN (voice-over): Alan Greenspan says the economy is close to stalling, and that was enough to encourage investors eager for another interest rate cut. And Wall Street heard more news it welcomed: Greenspan`s modest endorsement of tax cuts. 

 PETER BOYLE, KINETICS ASSET MANAGEMENT: He always strikes a balance between optimism and caution and, you know, he obviously threw some weight behind the tax cuts. So, that seems much more of a reality now, than it did even a week ago. So, that`s something to consider and something that Wall Street, I think, will ultimately view as a positive. 

 CLARKIN: There was little positive in technology stocks at the Corning (URL: http://www.corning.com/) changed its earnings per share guidance, reflecting the company`s cloudy outlook. Corning said it sees softness in the telecommunications business, and the company also said, several customers are scaling back their orders. Analysts say, near term, the outlook at the fiber optic firm is unclear. 

 TIMOTHY ANDERSON, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: The visibility has become murky. We don`t have a full sense of the outlook, we`re looking for continued illumination over the next several weeks, as we continue to drill down and talk to our contacts in the field. 

 CLARKIN: That murkiness had investors bailing out of Corning and related stocks. JDS Uniphase (URL: http://www.jdsunph.com/) , Lucent (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) and NorTel (URL: http://www.nortelnetworks.com/) were all battered. Blue chips rallied, as shares of Merck (URL: http://www.merck.com/) ,  3M (URL: http://www.mmm.com/)  and United Technologies (URL: http://www.utc.com/) jumped. But McDonald`s (URL: http://www.mcdonalds.com/)  fell after U.S. regulators Quarantine Cattle in Texas, on concerns over mad cow disease. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: Now that the Fed set to meet next week, Wall Street has shifted in to its wait and watch mode. And with the Fed chief saying the economy is flat, many here are waiting anxiously for what they now hope  will be a half point rate cut. Now, for a closer look at that cloud over tech stocks today, we go to John Metaxas at the Nasdaq market site. 

 JOHN METAXAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Greg, that cloud developed early here, mostly because of that guidance from Corning. Fiber optics JDS Uniphase big losers early on, but really, the rest of the market was down as well. All of tech lost today. The big caps uniformly lower; Cisco Systems (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) , the biggest loser, down 7 1/2 percent; Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) and Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) with losses, Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) down slightly on the day; Larry Ellison filing to sell 5 million shares of his company, Sun Microsystems (URL: http://www.sun.com/) down 4.8 percent on the day. 

 Fiber optics were weak; we also saw a lot of weakness in the Internet stocks, and this is a theme many are talking about now on the market, as we look at the performance of the Goldman Sachs Internet index year to date. Have we reflated the bull market, and perhaps, is it time to take some profits? Look at that low on January second -- from then until yesterday, the Goldman Sachs Internet index was up 50 percent, and that helps explain the nearly 6 percent loss today. Take a look at some of the performances in the Internet sector: pulling back today were Amazon.com (URL: http://www.amazon.com/) eBay (URL: http://www.ebay.com/) , Ariba (URL: http://www.ariba.com/) , Juniper Networks (URL: http://www.juniper.net/) ; Exodus (URL: http://www.exodus.net) warned their first quartet results would be hurt by slowing sales to dot-com customers, but in all, we saw money pull out of the Internet sector. 

 Not much in the way of earnings news tomorrow; Ericsson (URL: http://www.ericsson.com/) reporting, but really, this will be a Fed-driven market until the Fed finishes its meeting next week -- Willow, back to you. 

 BAY: Thanks, John. John Metaxas at the Nasdaq market site. 

 Well, next on MONEYLINE, after that fiber optic melt down on Wall Street: JDS Uniphase is out with profits after the bell. The outlook, and the late reaction. 

 The hot January destination for CEO`s, policy makers, and politicians: we`ll go live to Davos, Switzerland. 

 And, a rare interview from Davos, with one of the most powerful men in corporate America: Roger Enrico, CEO of Pepsi (URL: http://www.pepsico.com/) . 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Microsoft said today it was the target of a hacker attack. Users this morning had trouble accessing Microsoft sites such as MSN and Microsoft.com. Yesterday, the company blamed a similar problem on a domain-name issue. But just a few minutes ago, the company said today it was indeed hit by a denial-of-service attack. You might remember  last year a number of companies, including CNN and Yahoo! (URL: http://www.yahoo.com/) , suffered similar attacks. The company said it has notified the FBI. 

 BAY: Now to those after-the-bell earnings reports. PMC-Sierra (URL: http://www.pmc-sierra.com/) met analysts` expectations, coming in at 34 cents a share. The communication chip maker said revenues were up 152 percent, net income up 224 percent to $62 million. But the company warned sales will be weaker in the near term. 

 QUALCOMM (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) posted better-than-expected results, beating the  Street by a penny. But revenue fell short of expectations. The wireless technology titan cited, among other problems, its investment in the troubled satellite phone company Globalstar (URL: http://www.globalstar.com/) -- net income at Qualcomm up to $232 million. 

 BroadVision (URL: http://www.broadvision.com/) , the personalization software-maker, it fell short by 3 cents a share, blaming higher expense levels. The company reported revenue more than double last year`s -- net income, though, down to $4.5 million. 

 Checking how those stocks fared in after-hours trading: Qualcomm up fractionally. But PMC-Sierra plunged nearly 30. And BroadVision lost about 2 1/2. 

 VARNEY: Now, take a look another major report action the bell. It`s JDS Uniphase. It`s an optical-component company. And it beat the Street by 2 cents. Today the stock was punished in regular trading. And in after-hours, it down more than 2 1/2 points. Here`s Bruce Francis, who has been looking at all those numbers -- what do you see, Bruce? 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Stuart, I see last night`s report from Corning. Interesting here: JDS Uniphase did pull off a successful quarter, but like Corning, sees a major speed bump ahead. JDS Uniphase says that, excluding special charges, it did earn 21 cents a share, 2 cents better than the estimates. 

 Revenues shot up 161 percent to $925 million. Net income soared 148 percent. But when it comes that the all-important outlook for the March quarter, JDS Uniphase lowered its target growth rate for revenues by as much as 4 percent below current expectations. For the whole year, the company says that revenues could come in at the low end of projections. In its statement, the company said that: "This change in guidance from previous periods reflects uncertain carrier capital spending prospects, customer inventory adjustment and a somewhat lower-than-normal level of near-term sales visibility." 

 Customers include Nortel and wobbly networking giant Lucent. Analyst Jim Liang of WR Hambrecht says that it`s a temporary concern. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 JIM LIANG, WR HAMBRECHT: Our view is that this is a -- very much a short-term phenomena, two quarters. And longer term, secular growth story remains very much intact. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 FRANCIS: Executives said little about the pending merger with SDLI (URL: http://www.sdli.com/) , just that analysts should interpret the delayed shareholder vote as a sign that the deal is moving forward -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Just as you say, Bruce, it is the future that counts. Is that correct? 

 FRANCIS: Absolutely. Absolutely, Stuart -- this outlook very much like Corning`s. 

 VARNEY: Yes. Bruce Francis, thanks very much. 

 Well, this week has been the single busiest of the earnings season. Today alone, hundreds of companies were scheduled to report, from drugs to defense to energy. 

 Allan Chernoff has our Thursday earnings wrap-up. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ALLAN CHERNOFF, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Another gusher  of profits in the oil and natural gas industry largely the result of soaring energy prices -- net income jumped 262 percent at Unocal (URL: http://www.unocal.com/) , $1.04 a share, a penny better than forecast. Phillips Petroleum (URL: http://www.dow.com/) , which is warning of a weak first half this year. Lockheed Martin (URL: http://www.lockheedmartin.com) , maker of the of F-16 fighter jet, suffered a profit decline. But earnings were better than forecast. Raytheon (URL: http://www.raytheon.com/) saw net income rise 156 percent, calling 2000 the best year ever for the defense industry. Earnings per share met Wall Street`s forecast. 

 TODD ERNST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: When you look at Raytheon, it`s been the one defense company that I think has had the highest risk in terms of earnings. So it was good to see that they hit that number. 

 CHERNOFF: Demand for wireless phone service kept growing during the quarter, helping to drive growth at SBC Communications. Net income rose 5 percent. Earnings of 57 percent a share were in line with reduced estimates. Major drug companies reported earnings consistent with forecasts. Eli Lilly (URL: http://www.lilly.com/) , due to lose patent rights to Prozac later this year, earned 70 cents a share. 

 SYDNEY TAUREL, CHAIRMAN & CEO, ELI LILLY: Excluding Prozac, we expect to grow in the mid teens this year. This follows on the heels of very good performance for our newer products last year. 

 CHERNOFF: American Home Products (URL: http://www.ahp.com/) earned 53 cents a share and said it was taking a much bigger-than-expected charge of $7.5 billion to settle lawsuits over its Fen-Phen diet cocktail. And Schering-Plough (URL: http://www.schering-plough.com/) had earnings of 39 cents a share on strong sales of allergy medicine Claritin. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CHERNOFF: Drug companies are usually consistent earnings. But their stocks had been slumping this year as money was rushing into technology names. Today`s solid earnings helped to turn that tide, as drug stocks did rebound -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Allan, thanks very much. 

 Let`s take a look at how some of those stocks actually did today. First off, drug-makers: American Home Products and Eli Lilly both higher  on the day. But look at Amerada Hess. It really shot higher -- Phillips Petroleum up more than a point, while defensive issues Raytheon and Lockheed Martin, both of them gained more than 7 percent. 

 BAY: In tonight`s "Tech Watch": hand held computers. While personal computer sales have slumped recently, sales of hand held devices are at their highest levels ever. A new study out today from NPD Intelect says hand held sales have jumped more than 160 percent in the last year. But prices are heading in the opposite direction. As competition heats up, the average unit price has slipped more than 10 percent. 

 Today, Palm, maker of the popular Palm Pilot, inched up 1/2, while Handspring lost nearly 2. Both stocks are more than 50 percent off their 52-week highs. 

 Up next on MONEYLINE, a posh ski resort looking a bit like a police state: Davos bracing for protests. We`ll go live to wrap up the first day of the World Economic Forum. Stay with us. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Today, the World Economic Forum kicked off its annual meeting of the global economic elite in this Swiss Alps resort town Davos. It`s known  for its scenery and for its skiing. But the natural beauty this year is marred somewhat by incredibly tight security measures, as some fear protesters will attempt to bring the "Battle of Seattle" to Davos. Of course, the main topic of interest isn`t security, but of course the global economy. 

 And Susan Lisovicz joins us now from Davos, where it`s, what, around 1:00 a.m., Susan? 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: About 1:00 a.m. is right, Willow. 

 And, as you can see, snow is falling on Davos tonight, which accentuates a rather picturesque beauty of this Swiss ski village. But in sharp contrast to that rather placid image is the intense security we saw today at the opening of the World Economic Forum: riot police, bomb-sniffing dogs, barbed wire and fences, numerous checkpoints. 

 The Swiss police banned 300 activists from its borders. The U.S. government last week advised Americans to consider not coming to Davos. These were clear precautions taken after protests last year that damaged some local business here and fears that the increasing criticism and demonstrations about globalization would result in the violent protests that we saw in the Seattle at the World Trade Conference in 1999. 

 But certainly, it didn`t seem to deter any of the business luminaries who were planning to attend. Among those here for the five-day conference: Bill Gates of Microsoft, Michael Dell of Dell (URL: http://www.dell.com/) , Carly Fiorina of Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com) , Peter Bijur of Texaco (URL: http://www.texaco.com/) , Jurgen Schrempp of DaimlerChrysler (URL: http://www.daimlerchrysler.com) -- 30 heads of states also in attendance, including the newly elected president of Mexico, Vicente Fox, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat. 

 Certainly, one of the central themes this year: sustaining economic growth. A year ago, the picture was rosy for the U.S. The economy was roaring along. Tech stocks were soaring. But today there was a lot of debate about the state of the U.S. economy. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 MIKE MOORE, DIR., WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION: We`ve had several thousands years of experience at this. And the U.S. slowing down is still going a hell lot faster than most countries at top speed. 

 ALAN BINDER, FMR. VICE-CHAIRMAN, FEDERAL RESERVE: I surely felt I was going to get up here and say soft. As it looks now, I think I would have to say bumpy to hard, but most likely not a recession. I would bet against a recession. I would rate the probability of the recession in the year 2001 in the United States as something around a third. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 LISOVICZ: No senior member of the Bush administration here today, but exactly what they will do was the hot topic both in the seminars and in the hallways. 

 I`m Susan Lisovicz, reporting live from the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. 

 VARNEY: One of the many CEOs at Davos today: Pepsico chief Roger Enrico. Now, he`s a veteran of the "Cola Wars." And he beat out the competition late last year to buy Quaker Oats and its hot division, which is Gatorade. Earlier, I spoke with him from Davos. I began by discussing the recent flurry of food-industry deals, asking him how he thinks Pepsi has done with that Quaker deal. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ROGER ENRICO, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PEPSICO: Well, it will be a little -- it`s a little early to say how we`ve done since we haven`t closed the deal yet. But we think that there is tremendous value to be created by this combination of Quaker and Pepsico. The Quaker businesses touch every single one of our businesses. 

 People talk about Gatorade because it`s a very, very successful brand in much of the public eye. But the Quaker Oats (URL: http://www.quakeroats.com/) snack business fits with the Frito Lay business. And the whole go-to-market system that Quaker has  fits extraordinarily well with our Tropicana decision. So what you`re going to see is this Quaker merger with Pepsico fitting in to every -- and affecting in a positive way every single one of our businesses. 

 VARNEY: Looking to the future, is there a third division that`s coming down the pipe for Pepsi? You have got soft drinks. You`ve got snack food. Is there something in the future that would add a third leg to the company? 

 ENRICO: Well, we`re pretty happy with staying with what we call convenient food and beverages. I think what you`ll see happen isn`t so much a whole new sector for the company. But you`ll see the kinds of products that we market begin to migrate not only from chips and things like we`re doing now, but products that maybe have a little bit more functionality, like breakfast bars and granola bars and energy bars and things like that. 

 We`re already doing that on the beverage side with water, with the SoBe acquisition and now with Gatorade. So I don`t think it will be a different sector. I think it will just be an extension of the kinds of products we bring to market. 

 VARNEY: What kinds of guidance, in terms of profitability going forward, are you giving to the analysts and to Wall Street? 

 ENRICO: Well, Stuart, we had just an outstanding year in the year 2000. You know, we will have finished that year well above our guidance, well above 15 percent EPS growth. I don`t expect us to be able to do that all the time. We give the Street guidance that we think we can generate top-line growth of 68 percent. And we think we generate bottom line -- that is, EPS growth -- of about 13 percent or so, with occasional upsides from time to time; 2000 was one of the upsides. 

 You know, but that`s our goal. And we`ve been doing that consistently. And I think 2001, we`re going to be dead on the mark, if not pleasantly surprising again. 

 VARNEY: Roger Enrico, chairman and chief executive of Pepsi, thanks for joining us, sir. 

 ENRICO: Thank you, Stuart. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Investors clearly like what they see from Enrico and the company. The stock is trading at 43 3/4. And that`s just a few dollars away from its 52-week high. 

 BAY: Still to come, we`ll check in with Wolf Blitzer for the day`s headlines outside the world of business. Plus: Starbucks (URL: http://www.starbucks.com/) , hot coffee and a hot stock to go along with it. We`ll talk to the CEO about the company and its after-the-bell profit report. Stay with us. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: Good evening. I`m Wolf Blitzer in Washington, here with your MONEYLINE "News Digest." 

 Today in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, a guilty verdict in the murder trial of a teenager: A jury found a 13-year-old boy, one of Florida`s youngest murder defendants, guilty of first degree murder for the death of a 6-year-old girl. The boy claimed he accidentally killed the girl, who was a family friend, while imitating professional wrestlers. He faces life in prison without parole. 

 Also in court today, two of the six Texas prison escapees captured this week in Colorado -- at issue, their extradition to Texas, where the group broke out of a maximum-security prison on December 13. At a news conference today, authorities displayed an arsenal of weapons they say the  fugitives collected during their four weeks on the run. 

 In New York today, federal prosecutors announced an indictment against former Teamsters president Ron Carey. Prosecutors said Carey was charged with perjury and making false statements during an investigation of fund-raising during his 1996 reelection campaign. And those are some of the day`s top stories. Join me for much more later on "WOLF BLITZER REPORTS." I`ll also have an interview with New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, an ex-federal prosecutor, who`s critical of some of President Clinton`s last-minute pardons. That`s at 8:00 Eastern, 5:00 p.m. Pacific. 

 MONEYLINE continues right after this. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: In tonight`s headlines, the Federal Reserve chairman delivers a bombshell, throwing his weight behind tax cuts, and offering a stark assessment of the economy; saying growth has slowed to zero. Blue chip stocks warm to Greenspan`s words, but tech stocks take a beating, as the Nasdaq posts its first triple-digit loss in nearly three weeks. Hanging over techs, fears that the fiber optics sector will fail to keep up its blistering rate of growth. Corning shares fall 20 percent today. 

 VARNEY: But first, more on our top story: Alan Greenspan today issued a surprising show of support to the Bush administration, and one of its principle objectives. Speaking before the Senate Budget Committee, the Federal Reserve chairman, who had put a premium on debt reduction during the election, today came out as a supporter of cutting taxes, as the economy slows. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 GREENSPAN: Should current economic weakness spread beyond what now appears likely, having a tax cut in place may in fact do noticeable good. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY: The Fed chairman said it was the rise in the budget surpluses, that opened the door to tax cuts, and noted that paying down debt remained a good idea. As for the current shape of the economy, Mr. Greenspan said growth had slowed dramatically and might now have hit zero, thus heightening speculation that the Fed will cut rates again at next week`s meeting. 

 VARNEY: Now, Mr. Greenspan`s dramatic shift of sentiment on the tax issue may have come as a surprise, but it must have been a welcome surprise, especially to the Republican side of the aisle. We`re now joined from Washington by Republican Senator Pete Domenici. He is the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. 

 Mr. Chairman, welcome back. 

 SEN. PETE DOMENICI (R), NEW MEXICO: Thank you, Stuart, nice to be on. 

 VARNEY: Now that Mr. Greenspan is supporting a tax cut, has the political balance shifted to the point where you can say with real confidence yes, we will get a speedy broad-based reduction in Federal income tax rates. 

 DOMENICI: I think we will. I think Chairman Greenspan`s testimony today was a signal that even surpluses can get too big, and even surpluses get so big, that they are symbolic that we are over taxing our people and we should do something about that, like giving some of it back to them. Obviously, when he talks about using this surplus, he says use it for the debt, but you can`t apply every penny of it, right off the bat, as it accrues against the debt, because --there`s a risk of harming the economy, and putting too much money in the hands  of government so they can buy up assets, which is a risk to continued prosperity, and continued productivity in the economy. 

 A very exciting few pages of testimony that will be read by many. We Republicans will say to the Democrats we welcome you on board. Let`s do what`s right. There is plenty of money to spend, but there`s plenty of money and principle behind the idea of giving you some of it back. 

 VARNEY: President Bush is suggesting a $1.6 trillion tax cut spread over 10 years. What`s your thinking on the size of any tax cut, and the timing of it, because there`s a lot of talk of back- dating it to January the 1st, 2001. 

 DOMENICI: First of all, it was very interesting. I talked with Alan Greenspan yesterday afternoon. I think that he spoke to my counter-part also. I had asked him about the size of the Bush tax cut, and frankly, he answered today, as he did yesterday, it is not a large tax cut when you consider it over 10 years. He said, it is only an average tax cut when you consider that. I think it ought to be between $1.3 trillion and $1.6. But Democrats are already up to $700 billion. That`s a big jump from last year. It`s not enough, because, I think, what we`re going to find, is that there`s too much debt left over that we cannot apply -- too much surplus we can`t apply to the debt and there`s a risk we will spend it. 

 VARNEY: Can I press the issue of a back-dating to January 1. What`s your thinking on that? 

 DOMENICI: I don`t think it will do much good, and I don`t think it will have much chance. But, actually, tonight, let`s talk about the real professional. He said so too. Alan Greenspan said, that he didn`t think back-dating it or making it retroactive -- and I thought about that very carefully -- could significantly (UNINTELLIGIBLE) the situation we`ve got -- leaving me with the impression, and I hope that those who watched him, came away with the same one, that monetary policy will be the short-term fixer. And this tax plan will be the long term elixir. I think that`s what he said, and I think that`s what he was advocating today. 

 VARNEY: So, one last question if I may -- there`s many people that say, look, if you start giving large tax cuts, you`re simply going to burn down the surplus. How do you address that? 

 DOMENICI: This is -- let`s put it in perspective with pure numbers, then later on, we`ll talk about what`s doable and what isn`t. The surplus looks like it will be 5.7 trillion over ten years. The Bush tax cut  is $1.3 trillion. Do the arithmetic. Subtract the two, which is very easy to do. There`s a huge amount of money left over, for whatever we would need by way of high priority items, to take all that Social Security off budget and not spend a nickel of it. And take Medicare off. Still, there will be some money leftover. 

 You see, this is the most fantastic surplus we could ever imagine. It is 

 so big, that it led Alan Greenspan today to say the following, deficits can get so big, they are bad, and he added, and surpluses can get so big they are bad. 

 VARNEY: Senator Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. A pleasure to have you with us and thank you sir. 

 DOMENICI: Thank you. 

 BAY: Stuart, that Greenspan testimony also played a factor on Wall Street, helping to boost blue chip stocks, even as tech shares faltered. The Dow shot higher from the outset, and held up its gains, closing up 82 points, to 10,729. A different story on the Nasdaq, which slumped nearly 105 points, or nearly 4 percent to 2754. In the broader market, the S&P 500 lost nearly 7. 

 Checking some of the major movers: 3M, Merck, and United Technologies all up more than 2. McDonalds lost 1 1/4, after Texas Cattle were quarantined on concerns over mad cow disease. And Intel was off 1 3/4. But the main action was in fiber optics, hit by concerns of a slowdown ahead. Corning sank nearly 14, JDS Uniphase slumped almost 8, and after the bell, it reported better than expected profits, but warned about the future. SDL, which is merging with JDS -- that was down almost 33. Lucent and Nortel also fell. But the treasury market rallied on hopes the Fed will lower interest rates. The ten-year note gained nearly half a point. Its yield dropping to 5.24 percent, while the full-year surged a full point. 

 Coming up, the coffee king: Starbucks brews up an impressive quarter and beats the Street. We`ll talk to top boss, Orin Smith about what`s ahead. Plus, in New York, there`s a very different kind of dot-com downfall in the making -- the latest push to make billboards real signs of the times. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: In tonight`s MONEYLINE "Focus": Starbucks. It`s the king of java that has revolutionized the coffee retailing industry. And so far, has a stock to match. 

 In 2000, the worst year ever for the Nasdaq, Starbucks was a rare gem. Its shares climbed an impressive 83 percent. And late today, it beat Wall Street estimates, earning $0.25 cents a share in its fiscal first quarter, $0.02 cents better than expected. Revenues increased 26 percent to $667 million. Now ahead of today`s report, the stock fell fractionally, but in after-hours trading it`s gaining ground, up fractionally. 

 Joining us from Seattle, President and CEO, Orin Smith. 

 Sir, welcome back to MONEYLINE. 

 ORIN SMITH, PRESIDENT AND CEO, STARBUCKS: Thank you very much. Glad to be here. 

 BAY: You were able to the beat the street by two cents. What allowed you to do that? Was it your global expansion or growth in your U.S. business? 

 SMITH: Well, the exciting part is that it was all of those things. We were hitting in all of our businesses, internationally and domestically. It was an outstanding quarter. 

 BAY: Now, you guided -- you increased your profit goal for 2001, guided up by a penny yet you beat the street by two cents this quarter. So, why not raise that forecast by two cents? 

 SMITH: Well, we had higher expectations than the Street had in the first quarter. So, we only beat our own expectations by $0.01. And that`s why we only raised the expectations overall for the year by $0.01 on both ends of the range. 

 BAY: You sell coffee. As I understand it, you were helped by lower prices in green coffee, I guess that`s raw coffee. So, what is your outlook  for coffee prices going forward? Can you expect them to stay low? 

 SMITH: We expect that they will be low for a while. But we are bought out almost a year. So, the current prices will be reflected in our cost of sales at these levels for at least another 12 months. 

 BAY: Now, Peet`s, a coffee roster and a competitor, had its IPO today. It did well. What are your expectations, though, for the specialty coffee market? It grew about 15 percent, as I understand it, last year. What are your expectations for that market going forward and can it support all these new players? 

 SMITH: Well, Peet`s has been a competitor for a long time. And as a matter of fact, we have common origins. But I think the outlook for the specialty coffee industry is terrific. I think we`ll continue to grow in double digits. I am extremely optimistic about the size and growth of that market and I think there`s room for other competitors. 

 BAY: So, even in a slowing economy, folks are just not going to give up that latte? 

 SMITH: I believe that. I`ve believed that for a long time and I think our results in this Christmas quarter demonstrate that. 

 BAY: Orin Smith, CEO of Starbucks, thanks, as always, for joining us. 

 SMITH: Thank you, Willow. 

 BAY: Reports that Boeing (URL: http://www.boeing.com/) is planning a major scaleback near Seattle. Plus, J.C. Penney (URL: http://www.jcpenney.com/) fleshes out the details of its latest restructuring. All of that is ahead. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Boeing is reportedly planning to shut down one of its main plants  near Seattle and farm out more parts production to save a billion dollars a year. That would let it compete much better with Airbus. 

 An article in "Business Week" magazine that hits the stands tomorrow, sources the Boeing executives on a plan to phase out production at Boeing`s massive plant in Renton, Washington, where it builds 737 and 757 jets. The 8,000 workers there reportedly will be given the option to work at another Boeing plant north of Seattle. 

 Also said to be under consideration, outsourcing wing production for the new 747X to Japan`s Mitsubishi   Heavy Industries. A Boeing spokesman tells MONEYLINE, quote: "We are studying several scenarios and no decisions have been made to shut any plants," end quote. But Boeing stock, which has been under pressure lately, gained 1 13/16. It closed at 59 1/4. 

 BAY: Retailing icon J.C. Penney back in the headlines today, giving further details of a restructuring announced two days ago, when the company said it would close 50 stores. Penney now says it will slash 5,000 jobs, or nearly 2 percent of its total workforce. Penney stock slipped more  than a half point today. It`s off 47 percent from its 52-week high. 

 VARNEY: Also announcing lay-offs, Sara Lee (URL: http://www.saralee.com) . The consumer products company says it`s going to cut 7,000 jobs over the next 12 months. And that`s nearly 5 percent of its total workforce. The company, maker of everything from L`eggs stockings to Chock full o` Nuts coffee and even Kiwi shoe polish, says most of the cuts will come in the intimate apparel and 

 underwear division. The stock took off in 2000, although it`s down 11 percent this year. But it did gain just a fraction in today`s trading/ 

 Shares of IBP (URL: http://www.ibpinc.com/) tumbled today after Tyson Foods (URL: http://www.tyson.com/) said it was putting  its plans to buy the company on hold. It`s a poultry company, Tyson, and it said today it`s delaying its purchase because of a government probe into IBP`s accounting practices. The beef processor confirmed that the Securities and Exchange Commission has indeed requested certain financial information, but added that it expects to resolve any questions in an expeditious and satisfactory manner. It is set to  file a response with the SEC tomorrow. The unexpected development sent IBP shares lower. It fell 4 points, closing just under 25. Tyson gained a fraction. 

 BAY: Some relief today for desperate California utilities. The stocks rallied after the state of California, late yesterday, said it had received 39 bids from suppliers in a power auction. That prompted Merrill Lynch to say "the tide is turning" in a note upgrading Edison International (URL: http://www.edisonx.com/) and PG&E (URL: http://www.pgecorp.com/) this morning. The stocks surged on the news. Edison and PG&E both gained more than 3, or over 30 percent. 

 Joining us now with more on the outlook for the sector, Casey Wian, standing by for us in Los Angeles -- Casey. 

 CASEY WIAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Willow, prospects for a solution to California`s energy crisis appear to be improving, and that`s helping to the boost the shares of the state`s nearly bankrupt investor-owned utilities. 

 Edison International, parent company of Southern California Edison, jumped 30 percent today after a three-month slide that wiped out more than 60 percent of its value. PG&E, parent of Pacific Gas & Electric, also gained about 30 percent. Both companies helped by an investment upgrade by Merrill Lynch analyst Steve Fleischman (ph). He raised his ratings to accumulate up from neutral for high risk investors. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, we raised our ratings today. I would call it maybe more of a sticking our toes in the water, based on a viewpoint that the legislative process is moving along well, and that we think there is a viable solution to getting the utilities in better financial shape and getting the market fixed. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 WIAN: California Governor Gray Davis, in an interview with CNN, pledged to do what he can to save the utilities from bankruptcy. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 GOV. GRAY DAVIS (D), CALIFORNIA: Nobody in their right mind wants our two major utilities to go bankrupt. They employ about 100,000 people. Their stock is depended on by the so-called widows and orphans. They`ve traditionally been a dependable dividend payer. We want them back in business. We want to do it a way that`s fair to them and fair to the consumers. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 WIAN: Despite those assurances, Merrill Lynch`s Fleischman says there`s still a 25 percent chance that either Edison or PG&E will file for  bankruptcy -- Willow. 

 BAY: Casey, so, we`re not out of the woods yet, apparently. Casey Wian reporting. Thank you. 

 Just ahead, the Fed chairman takes an about-face on taxes. We`ll ask our financial editor, Myron Kandel, how quickly that may make a difference in you tax bill. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: A real drama in Washington today as Fed Chairman Greenspan testified. For politics and investing, his new support of cutting taxes was nothing short of a bombshell. But he talked more -- talked about more than just cutting taxes. And here`s our financial editor Myron Kandel with his take on the Greenspan testimony -- Mike. 

 MYRON KANDEL, CNNfn FINANCIAL EDITOR: Well, you know, Stuart, Greenspan really changed direction. Up to now, he says we should use the budget surplus to pay down the national debt. Today, he said we can do that but we can also cut taxes. 

 You know, there`s a little sidelight to this. The Bush White House has been saying that the budget estimates which come out next week could show a surplus over 10 years of as much as $3 trillion. And that`s up from the 2 1/4 trillion that had been previously estimated. Well, the Bush tax cut is only $1.6 trillion. That`s only half of $3 trillion, leaving a lot of room for Greenspan, who sort of knows the political antenna. 

 VARNEY: Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. 

 KANDEL: He can now change direction and say, we can pay down the debt and cut taxes. 

 VARNEY: If Mr. Greenspan is watching this program, and he may be, he`d be very disappointed to hear you say that he`s playing politics. 

 KANDEL: I didn`t say he`s playing politics. I say he`s not unaware of the political climate in Washington right now. 

 VARNEY: That`s correct. Myron Kandel, it was a pleasure. Thank you very much. 

 Up next, "Ahead of the Curve": Some of what you need to know tonight before those markets open up again. You`re watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Taking a look at some of what could move the markets tomorrow, a read on the economy with durable goods for December. And watch for quarterly reports from Dow component Honeywell, as well as Ericsson (URL: http://www.ericsson.com/) and Gillette (URL: http://www.gillette.com/) . And for continued coverage of the world economic forum, tune in to "AHEAD OF THE CURVE" at 5 a.m. Eastern on CNN. Tomorrow, an interview Boeing`s Phil Condit, live from Davos, Switzerland. 

 Remember MONEYLINE would like to hear from you. so send us your comments by e-mail to moneyline@cnn.com. 

 Finally tonight, a sign of the dot.com times. They may be bankrupt, but the spirit of several fallen Internet firms lives on in billboards towering over the streets of New York. 

 As Steve Young reports, some say bring them down. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A New York state politicians is angry as hell about Angryman, and isn`t going to take it anymore. The dot.com went belly up, but its ad still lords over Manhattan, and the politician wants somebody to take it down. And this is not an isolated phenomenon. 

 (on camera): Urban Fetch promised it could deliver anything in a hour. Anything but profitability, and last October the company went bust. 

 (voice-over): The billboard is still booming its message on the side of Chelsea Piers. The dot.coms like to put big billboards in your face, you know, to get eyeballs. Why, just look at that huge sign for one of the more successful Internet companies. 

 When he heard DoubleClick (URL: http://www.doubleclick.net) wants to crown its headquarters with a  truly humongous sign, New York State Assemblyman Richard Gottfried figured it was time for insurance against dot.com implosions. 

 RICHARD GOTTFRIED, NEW YORK HOUSE: My concern is if and when they go out of business or move or what have you, that sign could be up there gathering dust, you know, until the building comes down. You know, it`s bad enough that you have something up there like that if it`s serving some  purpose. But if it`s just gathering dust, it shouldn`t be there. 

 YOUNG: Gottfried`s asking the city council to make billboard owners pay into an interest bearing account to defray the cost of removal if a business goes bankrupt or leaves town. But the ex- marketing director of Angryman isn`t so sure billboard companies would happily comply. 

 MICHAEL ARNOLD, FRM. MARKETING DIRECTOR, ANGRYMAN.COM: They fell they want to leave these billboards up after companies like Angryman go out of business because they want a graphic or creative design up there. It helps to sell the billboard. 

 YOUNG: Assemblyman Gottfried doesn`t care about selling billboards. He just  wants to bury dead dot.coms and dots all, folks. 

 Steve Young, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Dots all. That`s MONEYLINE for this Thursday. I`m Willow Bay in Los Angeles. 

 VARNEY: And I`m Stuart Varney. Good night from New York. " 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2001 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material  other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall  user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members  of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to  CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010712dx1p00062




 Companies: Compaq Posts A Net Loss In Quarter --- Earnings Rise, Meeting Lowered Expectations 

A Wall Street Journal Europe Roundup
381 words
24 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
UK5
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -- Compaq Computer Corp. posted a large net loss in the fourth quarter after taking a hit on its technology investments and weakening demand in the U.S. consumer market for personal computers. 

 Excluding the charge, its fourth-quarter operating profit rose 55%, beating Wall Street's lowered expectations. 

 The Houston company, which issued a profit warning last month, reported fourth-quarter operating income of $515 million (549 million euros), or 30 cents per share, compared with net income of $332 million, or 19 cents per share, a year earlier. 

 Including a $1.8 billion charge for the write-off of investments, principally from the decline in value of its stake in Internet investment company CMGI Inc., Compaq reported a net loss of $672 million, or 39 cents per share. 

 Analysts had lowered their expectations for operating profit to 28 cents per share from 36 cents per share after the No. 1 computer maker warned of lower demand in the American consumer and business markets. 

 Total revenue rose to $11.53 billion, up 10% from $10.48 billion. 

 "It looks like they came in at the high end of revised estimates," said David Bailey, an analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison. "Relatively speaking, it looks like a pretty solid quarter. Revenues are respectable in the circumstances." 

 Compaq reported an operating loss of $6 million in its consumer PC segment, compared with a profit of $69 million a year earlier. 

 Compaq said it is comfortable with analysts' expectations of 20% to 25% growth in 2001, a wider range than the 25% earnings growth the company projected on Dec. 12 for the 2001 year. Like rival Dell Computer Corp., which warned Monday, Compaq predicted difficult market conditions in the first half of the year. 

 Compaq said strength in its enterprise business, international growth and solid services profitability offset softness in the North American personal computer market. The company said server and storage revenue grew 20% over the previous year, with strength across all high-end product lines. 

 Before the announcement, Compaq shares closed at $20.05, up 23 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange. Compaq stock rose to $22.50 in afterhours trading. 

Document wsje000020010713dx1o001qn




 Israeli stocks halt skid with late session bounce. 

353 words
24 January 2001
16:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TEL AVIV, Jan 24 (Reuters) - A last-minute bounce rescued Israeli shares from a fifth straight drop, as late buying from options players pushed Israeli shares higher on Wednesday, traders said. 

 "The market came back five minutes before it closed," said a trader at Nessuah Zannex Securities. "It was all options players since there is an options expirations (on Thursday). They wanted the Maof (blue-chip Tel Aviv 25 index) above 460." 

 The TA-25 index , which was at 455 points moments before closing, ended at 463.07, up 0.7 percent. The broader TA-100 index ended 0.6 percent higher at 453.61 points. Main indices are still down more than five percent this week. 

 The technology Teltech index rose 1.95 percent, reversing a similar loss on Tuesday. 

 Tuesday's turnover was a solid 415.4 million shekels, compared with 270.3 million shekels on Tuesday. 

 Stocks opened lower on increasing pessimism on peace talks, which broke down on Tuesday after two Israelis were killed, prompting Israel to recall senior negotiators and consult on future peacemaking, traders said. Bank Leumi , which was a main beneficiary of the options buying spree, gaining 4.5 percent, while Clal Industries shares surged 5.4 percent, more than reversing Tuesday's sharp decline. 

 Koor Industries shares rebounded slightly from a seven percent dive on Tuesday, which came after its key holding, ECI Telecom issued another profit warning for the fourth quarter, with a 0.6 percent rise. 

 But Teva Pharmaceutical Industries , which accounted for a hefty 68 million shekels of volume, continued its slump as its Tel Aviv shares follow weakness in its Nasdaq-traded shares. 

 Teva's shares ended 1.7 percent lower, bringing losses to nearly 15 percent in the past five sessions. 

 Fellow dual-listed share Matav Cable Systems Media fell posted a 2.2 percent fall, after a 3.1 percent decline on Tuesday. 

 0#.TA100)-Tel Aviv 100 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 100 index 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index 

 -Tel Aviv technology index 

 ($1 = 4.15 shekels). 

Document lba0000020010713dx1o0705o




 Europe Stock Focus: ECI Seen Risky Despite Restructure 

 By Amy Teibel 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
791 words
24 January 2001
10:05
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 JERUSALEM -(Dow Jones)- ECI Telecom Ltd. (ECIL) tried to soften its second profit warning for fourth quarter earnings by saying it is finished spinning off its five business divisions. 

 But the stock is still a risky proposition partly because the success of the restructuring isn't a sure thing, analysts say. 

 Nasdaq-listed ECI created five separate companies out of its transport, optical network, access, next generation and Innowave business divisions. The breakup, which ECI says was completed Jan. 1, was designed in part to boost the price of the share, which tumbled 6.8% Tuesday after the profit warning to $14.50. It had traded as low as $11.81 during the session. 

 Rami Rosen, an analyst at the Oscar Gruss investment house, downgraded the share Tuesday to hold from speculative buy. "In light of heavy uncertainty that surrounds the company's activity in the near term (slowdown in telecom equipment spending, success of reconstruction plan, etc.), we are reducing our recommendation from speculative buy to hold," Rosen wrote in the downgrade report. 

 ECI's shares - which were $39.81 in mid-July - aren't "going anywhere too soon," another analyst said on condition of anonymity. But he said if investors pick it up at $12 to $13 and can hold on to it for nine to 12 months, they "can probably make good money." 

 Uncertainty About Post-Breakup Abounds 

 Shares are likely to rise above $20 if the breakup strategy is successful, but they could remain where they are or fall even lower if it isn't, he said. 

 And that is the big "if" - especially after ECI revised a Dec. 14 profit warning Tuesday. The company said it expects to report on Feb. 14 an operating loss of $35 million to $40 million, excluding charges of $100 million to $130 million from restructuring and one-time write-offs. An SAB 101 accounting change, a decline in sales of digital circuit multiplication equipment and lower-than-expected sales of optical network products contributed to a revenue shortfall of $60 million to $75 million, the company added. 

 ECI "is an extremely high-risk game now, simply because the future is unknown," another analyst said on condition of anonymity. "There's a genuine concern about the health of each division separately." 

 The optical network division has an exciting end product but doesn't have any sales yet, he said. The access division has a good product but isn't making profits. What's more, the product is being commoditized, and that will erode profits and margins, he added. And while ECI has a "unique" transport product, the market for those products is extremely weak, he said. 

 The second profit warning - the latest in a line of actual warnings or declining guidances ECI has issued since the second quarter of 1999 - also shows serious problems with sales and marketing, analysts said. 

 "I think there's been a lot of focus on the breakup of the company, i.e., creating value, and they lost focus on the business," the first analyst said on condition of anonymity. "Sales started slowing down, and they weren't closing sales. And that's been exacerbated by a slower spending environment globally on telecom equipment." 

 There are "a lot of things working against it right now," he continued. "Nonetheless, I think the valuation is probably pretty low, and the sum of the parts is still fairly attractive. But I think there's going to be a real lack of investor confidence here. Every single quarter they're going down," he said of ECI's results. 

 He added that the information flow from the company to investors "has been terrible." 

 When the demerger was initially conceived, ECI planned to take all five companies public in 2001. With the equity market downturn, ECI has lowered its sights to floating one or two in late 2001, Chief Executive Doron Inbar said. To give the companies the ability to position themselves in the interim, ECI has raised some $400 million in short- and long-term capital. It's also in talks with strategic investors to trade bank capital for equity stake, Inbar said. 

 Jonathan Kolber, the chief executive of ECI's parent company, Koor Industries Ltd. (KOR), said they've received term sheets from potential investors interested in acquiring anywhere from 10% to 15% of one division to purchasing a division outright. Inbar said the lion's share of the companies won't be sold to strategic investors, and that he expects some news on this score within a few months. 

 -By Amy Teibel; Dow Jones Newswires; 972-2-537-6985; amy.teibel@dowjones.com 

53029

Document dji0000020010711dx1o00cpu




BUSINESS
EARTHGRAINS TAKES A HIT FROM STRIKE, ENERGY PRICES; BAKING COMPANY HERE LOSES $400,000 IN QUARTER  

By Thomas Lee Of The Post-Dispatch  
932 words
24 January 2001
St. Louis Post-Dispatch
SLMO
EDITION: FIVE STAR LIFT
PAGE: C2
English
Copyright 2001, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  

Labor strife and soaring energy costs took their toll on Earthgrains Co. as the country's second-largest producer of bakery and bread products released third-quarter earnings that fell significantly below Wall Street estimates.  

For the quarter ended Jan. 2, the Clayton-based company lost $400,000, or 1 cent a share, compared to a profit of $20.1 million, or 48 cents, a year earlier. Before Earthgrains released its profit warning last week, analysts had expected the company to earn as much as 30 cents a share.  

Shares of Earthgrains rose $1.63 Tuesday, or almost 11 percent, to close at $16.75.  

Company officials said the third-quarter numbers were an important gauge of the effect of last year's seven-week-long strike by union workers.  

The company said the strike cost Earthgrains $29 million in lost sales, which shaved about 37 cents off third-quarter earnings. Before the strike, Earthgrains had forecast annual sales growth of 2 to 3 percent, said Chief Financial Officer Mark Kreiger.  

Also hurting performance were natural gas rates, which jumped 136 percent during the quarter, forcing the company to spend an additional $5.6 million on energy related costs.  

"The worst is over," said Jeff Kanter, an analyst with Prudential Securities.  

Kreiger expects Earthgrains to earn 57 to 62 cents a share this fiscal year on sales of $2.58 billion. For fiscal 2002, the company projects it will earn between $1.50 and $1.65 a share on sales of $2.7 billion.  

During a conference call with analysts, Kreiger deflected several questions about whether Earthgrains would soon make another major acquisition, rumored to be Best Food Bakeries, saying only that the company viewed industry consolidation as a "positive" development. Last March, Earthgrains completed its $625 million purchase of Metz Baking of Deerfield, Ill.  

Other local earnings reports issued Tuesday:  

* Ralston Purina Co., the St. Louis-based pet-food maker, said lagging North American sales reduced first-quarter profits by almost 9 percent.  

The company said North American sales dipped 2 percent while profits fell 5 percent due to increased competition and the rising cost of pet-food ingredients. Ralston Purina's first-quarter earnings of 28 cents a share was about a penny lower than Wall Street estimates.  

Shares of Ralston Purina closed unchanged on the New York Stock Exchange at $31.19. Last week, Nestle S.A. said it would buy the company in a deal worth about $11.2 billion.  

* Maverick Tube Corp. said its profit and sales jumped dramatically in the fourth quarter, thanks largely to its acquisition in September of Prudential Steel Ltd. of Canada.  

Chesterfield-based Maverick makes pipes and tubes, largely for use in drilling natural gas and oil wells and for transporting those fuels. With drilling picking up and imports of such tubes expected to decline, Maverick should be able to sell more of its products and at higher prices, said President and Chief Executive Gregg Eisenberg.  

Maverick's profit for the year would have been $27.4 million, or 79 cents a share, if not for one-time transaction and inventory charges stemming from the purchase of Prudential, the company said.  

* Cass Information Systems saw its profits-per-share rise by 32 percent in the fourth quarter, and by 25 percent for the entire year.  

The company said the profit increase stemmed from rising earning assets funded by freight and utility processing operations, more loans at the company's bank subsidiary, and a rise in interest rates.  

GRAPHIC | Graphic/chart - BY THE NUMBERS CASS INFORMATION SYSTEMS Exchange: NASDAQ   Symbol: CASS 3 mos. to     3 mos. to      Pct. 12/31/2000    12/31/1999      chg. Net Intrst Incm.      $8.639        $7.274     +18.8 Net Income ($mil)     $1.851        $1.544     +19.9 Per share              $0.54         $0.41     +31.7  12 mos. to    12 mos. to      Pct. 12/31/2000    12/31/1999      chg. Net Intrst Incm.     $32.112       $26.721     +20.2 Net Income ($mil)     $7.147        $6.198     +11.0 Per share              $2.02         $1.61     +25.5 ------------------------------------------------------------ MAVERICK TUBE CORP. Exchange: NYSE   Symbol: MVK 3 mos. to     3 mos. to      Pct. 12/31/2000    12/31/1999      chg. Revenue ($mil)       $157.94       $129.62     +21.8 Net Income ($mil)      $9.89         $1.55    +538.1 Per share              $0.29         $0.05    +480.0  12 mos. to    12 mos. to      Pct. 12/31/2000    12/31/1999      chg. Revenue ($mil)       $560.38       $342.97     +63.4 Net Income ($mil)     $16.57        -$6.29      N.M. Per share              $0.48          -$20      N.M. N.M. = Not meaningful ------------------------------------------------------------ EARTHGRAINS CO. Exchange: NYSE   Symbol: EGR 3 mos. to     3 mos. to      Pct. 1/2/01        1/4/00      chg. Revenue ($mils)         $782          $643     +21.6 Net Income ($mil)       -$13         $18.7      N.M. Per share             -$0.32         $0.45      N.M.  9 mos. to     9 mos. to      Pct. 1/2/01        1/4/00      chg. Revenue ($mil)        $1,985        $1,562     +27.1 Net Income ($mil)       $6.8         $46.9     -85.5 Per share              $0.16         $1.12     -85.7 N.M. = Not meaningful ------------------------------------------------------------ RALSTON PURINA Exchange: NYSE   Symbol: RALEGR 3 mos. to     3 mos. to      Pct. 12/31/00      12/31/99      chg. Revenue ($mil)          $731          $728      +0.4 Net Income ($mil)      $81.4           $89      -8.5 Per share              $0.28         $0.30      -6.7  

Document SLMO000020040530dx1o009bl




 Polaroid Finance Chief Boynton Resigns, Company to Search for Replacement 

313 words
24 January 2001
22:15
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Polaroid Corp. announced that Judith G. Boynton, the company's chief financial officer, has resigned. 

 The instant-camera and film maker said Wednesday that Ms. Boynton, 46 years old, joined Polaroid (PRD) from Amoco Corporation, now BP Amoco PLC, in 1998. 

 Polaroid said a search for Ms. Boynton's replacement is under way. Carl L. Lueders, vice president and treasurer, will serve as acting chief financial officer. 

 "Several months ago, Judy had privately made it clear to me that she was interested in pursuing broader career opportunities," Gary T. DiCamillo, chairman and chief executive officer, said in a prepared statement. "I am pleased and grateful that she remained with us through a challenging second half of 2000." 

 Ms. Boynton also resigned as executive vice president of business development. 

 On Dec. 15, Polaroid lowered its sales and earnings projections for the fourth quarter, citing a decline in film shipments resulting from more conservative stocking policies. 

 Polaroid also said it planned to take several steps designed to combat the U.S. economic downturn by increasing cash flow and reducing debt by at least $100 million. 

 The company said it expected to report earnings from operations in the break-even range. At the time, analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial were expecting earnings of 52 cents a share. 

 In its warning, Polaroid said the shift in buying patterns seen at the end of the third quarter, when retailers failed to make their normal big orders to stock up for the Christmas season, continued in the fourth quarter. As a result, Polaroid scaled back its manufacturing output to reflect lower projected demand, which could reduce fourth-quarter revenue by $60 million to $70 million and operating profit by $40 million to $45 million. 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020010711dx1o00aa7




All New Features
Ireland's Jittery Giants   

2,096 words
24 January 2001
Sunday Business Post
SBPM
English
Copyright (c) 2001 Sunday Business Post; Source: World Reporter (TM)   

Catherine O'Mahony   

If the US sneezes will we catch flu? The dramatic downturn in the fortunes of some US multinationals has serious implications for their many Irish employees. We examine the outlook for ten US giants with operations in Ireland.   

The economic woes of the US are wreaking havoc on the fortunes of the country's largest corporations, particularly on those with exposure to the sluggish market for PCs. Share prices have slid dramatically, and for some companies the outlook is more of the same.   

As worries mount about potential global retrenchment by massive US employers, here is an overview of the financial positions of the biggest players:   

GATEWAY   

Gateway has clearly been hit hard by the global downturn in PC sales, having moved to lay off some 3,000 staff after a disastrous fourth quarter -- that includes 10 per cent of its Irish workforce.   

The company is now facing into a year of considerably slower than expected growth, and, as price wars begin to secure what is left of a dwindling market, the worst may not be over yet.   

&quot;The bad news is that these companies each think they are going to intimidate the others with aggressive pricing -- it's a massive game of chicken,&quot; Bear Stearns analyst Andy Neff wrote of Gateway during the week. &quot;Inventories are high everywhere -- and they all have cash -- not a good prescription.&quot;   

Like  Hewlett Packard and Apple, Gateway is heavily dependent on retail sales rather than the corporate market. Last week it revealed a loss of $94.3 million on revenues of $2.37 billion in the last quarter of 2000 -- excluding exceptional charges that translated into profit of 12 cents a share, considerably below forecasts.   

Chief executive Jeff Weitzen spoke of &quot;tough times&quot; ahead and said the aggressive pricing environment would hurt the PC sector for at least six months. The Christmas season was one of the worst the industry had ever seen, he said.   

12-month share performance   

Down 60 per cent.   

Outlook: No relief on cost pressures likely for some time   

IBM   

The world largest computer maker looks in relatively respectable shape at present. Surprisingly enough, this is in some part thanks to its sales of bulky mainframe computers, which still sell for around $1 million each.   

While some analysts have cut back their financial forecasts for the company for this year, many remain hopeful that it will ride out the present storms. And IBM itself said it was confident for 2001 when it released fourth quarter results last week, with strong sales in Europe and Asia expected to offset any problems in the US.   

IBM's revenue was up 5.9 per cent in the final quarter of 2001, with net income up 28 per cent at $1.48 a share, ahead of average forecasts.   

12-month share performance   

Little changed.   

Outlook: Better than many   

DELL COMPUTER

Final quarter figures for  Dell (to the end of January) are not due until February, so it will be some time until a clear picture emerges as to the most recent fortunes of the world's biggest direct seller of PCs.   

In the third quarter of 2000, business was performing relatively well, with sales up 40 per cent and record net income and operating income.   

Chief executive Michael Dell said growth in servers and notebook PC sales was 15 points ahead of the industry average. Sales in Europe, the Middle East and Africa -- the segment that is most important for Ireland -- were up 7 per cent.   

What concerned analysts was  Dell's forecast that its sales growth would slow to around 20 per cent in the next fiscal year -- this marked the third sales warning in a year from  Dell.

However  Dell is continuing to invest; the company is opening a second factory in Malaysia in March.   

12-month share performance   

Down 43 per cent.   

Outlook: Too early to tell   

INTEL   

Given its dependence on PC sales,  Intel is regarded by many analysts as being in a very risky situation as 2001 progresses and it has already conceded that its earnings may be in peril.   

On the plus side, fourth quarter earnings released last week were ahead of forecasts with income of 38 cents a share -- analysts had expected 37 cents on average -- and revenue up 6 per cent at $8.8 billion from $8.2 billion.   

Nonetheless, chief executive Craig Barrett warned that slowing economic conditions had affected its fourth quarter growth and were causing &quot;near-term uncertainty&quot;.   

At an analysts' call after the announcement, company executives said this year's first quarter, traditionally a slow period, would be even slower than usual.   

Intel's first quarter sales generally drop about 5 per cent.   

The chief financial officer, Andy Bryant, was quoted as saying: &quot;Our comfort with precise forecasts is as low as it has been in years.&quot;   

Like  Dell,  Intel has not as yet indicated any plans to cut back spending. In fact it said it planned to continue to build new plants for its new faster chip manufacturing process. However, it has delayed plans to spend $2 billion this year on a new plant in Leixlip.   

12-month share performance   

Down over 50 per cent.   

Outlook: Uncertain   

CITIGROUP   

Worries about a glut of bad loans as a result of a slowing economy has made some observers concerned for the US banking system -- and  Bank of America and  JP Morgan Chase have already warned of lower fourth quarter profits -- but  Citigroup managed to calm such fears with a solid earnings report last week.   

The company, which operates in 100 countries, Ireland included, made 65 cents a share in the last quarter of 2000, exactly in line with forecasts -- with overall profits at $3.3 billion.   

Analysts have commented that the sheer diversity of this enormous financial group may be enough to protect it from the difficulties that could hit smaller rivals.   

Chief executive Sandy Weill conceded that there were some difficulties emerging with corporate loans and that this would have an impact in 2001. Profitability at Salomon Smith Barney,  Citigroup's investment banking arm, was also affected by the fall in financial markets.   

However, consumer banking was performing well, he said. At the same time, net credit losses in  Citigroup's credit cards and other consumer banking areas increased in the last quarter of 2001.   

12-month share performance   

Up 25 per cent.   

Outlook: Relatively steady   

HEWLETT PACKARD   

When the chief executive admits to being surprised by events, you know there is something to worry about. So sudden has been the turn in  Hewlett Packard's fortunes in the past few months that its ceo, Carly Fiorina, recently commented: &quot;Frankly, it was like somebody turned the lights out.&quot;   

HP recently cut its forecast for the current quarter because of tough economic conditions and a weakening in demand, although as recently as last November it had said it was happy with the forecasts that existed. While analysts were forecasting earnings of 42 cents per share, HP said a result of 32 to 40 cents was more likely and that sales would rise at a rate well below 10 per cent.   

Fiorina was one of many US business leaders who hoped the US economic slowdown would turn out to be a gradual affair. Now all eyes will be on HP, along with  Dell, as both companies gear up to report earnings in February.   

12-month share performance   

Down 22 per cent, 50 per cent off its 2000 peak.   

Outlook: Uncertain; next earnings report will be crucial   

APPLE   

Its failure to lure users away from IBM compatible machines has left Apple struggling for some time for reasons other than the US economic situation. Unlike most of its competitors, Apple is already carrying a heavy loss. The company reported a loss of $247 million for the last quarter of 2000 as sales fell 57 per cent, worse than many analysts had expected.   

The company had already slashed its revenue expectations for the quarter from $1.6 billion to $1 billion, citing a large outstanding inventory, a slowdown in PC sales and a slower global economy. It has also said it expected 2001 revenue of $6 billion, not $6.5 billion as was formerly expected.   

The lack of popularity of core Apple models has proved a major problem for the company.   

Chief executive Steve Jobs last week presided over the launch of a new lineup of products designed to bring it up to speed with its more versatile competitors -- offering faster processors and DVD and CD drives -- features which have been widely available on other models.   

Analysts are worried that this alone will not solve Apple's woes; it is heavily dependent on the market for personal computers and its products are generally more expensive than others.   

Further innovations, especially for fans of the colourful iMac, are awaited.   

12-month share performance   

Down 63 per cent.   

Outlook: Questionable. Bolder strategies seen needed.   

XEROX   

The world's largest maker of photocopiers has hit a cash crisis, having exhausted a $7 billion credit line.   

The company has had to sell its Chinese operations and plans to sell off another $4 billion in assets to keep itself afloat.   

A cash infusion of $435 million from  General Electric brought the company back from the brink of near-bankruptcy earlier this month.   

After reporting its first quarterly loss in 16 years in the third quarter of 2000, there were serious concerns about the future for Xerox, but the company now says it has enough liquidity to meet its needs for the foreseeable future.   

12-month share performance   

Down nearly 70 per cent   

Outlook: Expansion plans certainly on hold.   

MOTOROLA   

The world's second largest maker of mobile phones,  Motorola's market share has been under pressure for some time and weakening economic conditions will not help matters -- it has twice lowered its earnings expectations in the past six months.   

Its shares have been in a tailspin ever since it was dislodged from its leading position by Finnish rival Nokia.   

Layoffs are already underway worldwide at  Motorola -- 750 staff are being laid off in Swords, Dublin and the company last week moved to slash 2,500 jobs at its facility in Harvard. Some 4 per cent of  Motorola's workforce is being shed, and the company has said that it will have to keep up the cost-cutting.   

In the third quarter of 2000,  Motorola's global market share had slipped to 13 per cent, compared with Nokia's 30 per cent. Problems have persisted even after its chief executive, Christopher Galvin, initiated a restructuring in 1998, with 15,000 layoffs.   

Earlier this month  Motorola announced plans to sell off $2 billion in stock for general corporate purposes. That was after it said it expected no improvement in handset sales for the next three to six months.   

Fourth quarter sales for 2000 were $10.1 billion, in line with lowered forecasts, while profits dropped some 40 per cent. First quarter sales for 2001 will be announced in April.   

12-month share performance   

Down 50 per cent.   

Outlook: Fairly bleak in the short term, more cost-cutting expected.   

MICROSOFT   

The falloff in  Microsoft's profit growth revealed last week had been well heralded by the company in advance. The company made an unchanged net profit of 47 cents a share, and the market greeted the news with some relief.   

Like its competitors,  Microsoft has been badly hit by the consumer squeeze in the US before Christmas, and said in mid-December that its sales and profits would be below forecasts right through to June 2001.   

That was  Microsoft's first profit warning in 10 years.   

Added to  Microsoft's woes is its ongoing court battle over its Windows system, which has prompted an order to split the company.   

Its shares have been hammered all last year as a result. Further hearings are due next month.   

Microsoft's prospects depend in large part on its ability to deliver more products for the corporate market; its Windows 2000 system is being closely monitored and performed well in its fiscal second quarter.   

The market consensus appears to be tending toward the optimistic for an early recovery by  Microsoft.

The theory is that it was quick to spot its own difficulties and will be quick to manage them.   

12-month share performance   

Down 50 per cent   

Outlook: Guardedly optimistic   

Document SBPM000020070514dx1o0085y




 Heavyweights lead market slide. 

 By Deidre Stark. 
548 words
24 January 2001
Courier Mail
COUMAI
27
English
(c) 2001 Queensland Newspapers Pty Ltd

 RENEWED gloom about United States advertising markets sparked a News Corp sell-off yesterday and profit-takers also pocketed recent Telstra gains, dragging the local sharemarket into negative territory. Strength in gold miners, selected tech stocks and a handful of blue chips such as Lend Lease and ANZ Bank could not offset the trip south by market heavyweights News Corp, Telstra and BHP. The benchmark ASX200 softened 31.1 points to 3288.6 while the older All Ordinaries index fell 27.8 to 3236.1. Wall Street's current reporting season, with more than 1100 companies due to reveal their December quarter figures this week, blew a chill wind through the market after computer maker Dell issued a profit warning. American Express reported quarterly results in line with expectations but said the slowing economy would eat into its earnings per share growth, causing further fears which cut 9.4 points off the Dow Jones to 10,578.2. 

  The dismal market conditions saw the greenback weaken, boosting the euro and the Australian dollar. Traders said yesterday's Australian business sentiment figures showing conditions at their worst since June 1993, failed to steal the dollar's steam. It peaked at US55.83 yesterday from a low of US55.40 and hovered cautiously around US55.57 as the market awaited today's inflation data. On the domestic sharemarket, News Corp was kicked about following a 2.34 percent loss on its ADRs overnight in New York. The sell off started after an influential Merrill Lynch analyst said advertising revenue in the US had begun to slump "suddenly and sharply" in November and was continuing to do so this year, with TV advertising the worst affected. Traders who left the company - which controls the Fox TV network in the US - pocketed its 30 percent surge for the year so far, and an 11 percent gain in the previous six trading sessions. "This is a stock which has had an incredible resurgence this year," ABN Amro Morgans senior dealer Neil Bryan said. "For a large number of investors it is a trading stock, certainly not held for dividends, so when it moves from below $14 to above $18 in a short period, it's not unusual to see this selling, which explains a lot of today's demise." News ordinary shares lost 90.4 to $17.341 and its preferred scrip 84 to $15.36. Telstra also eased, losing 10 to $7.08. News Corp accounted for about 18 points of the All Ordinaries' dip and Telstra and BHP another 3 points each. Banks were mixed with NAB and Westpac suffering mild dips, CBA gaining 2.5 to $30.79 and ANZ 17.6 to $14.30. Gold made solid gains on the back of high hopes for last night's Bank of England auction of 25 tonnes and a rally in the spot gold price. Newcrest led the charge after drilling in its north Queensland joint venture with Union Capital found potentially high grade gold. It gained 14 to $4.25. Normandy added 3 to 98 and Delta firmed 4 to $1.20. "Besides gold stocks showing some light, there wasn't really direction from any sector," JP Morgan equities dealer Giles Markey said. 

Document coumai0020010710dx1o007lv




 Lucent plans up to 16,000 job cuts, reports disappointing results again 

 By LINDA A. JOHNSON 
AP Business Writer
711 words
24 January 2001
23:50
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Lucent Technologies is cutting as many as 16,000 jobs in a drastic bid to restore the communications equipment maker to former glories after a year of blunders, including another disappointing profit report on Wednesday. 

 The decision to reduce Lucent's worldwide work force of 123,000 by as much as 13 percent is the main thrust of a plan to slash $2 billion a year in operating costs. 

 As many as 6,000 jobs may be lost as part of a plan to sell some factory operations in Ohio and Oklahoma to other companies and then hire those companies as contractors, though Lucent told The Associated Press it expects those contractors to hire "a majority" of the workers affected. 

 The company said it plans to sell a portion of its Columbus, Ohio, plant and then contract with the buyer to purchase wireless switching equipment made at the plant. 

 Plant spokeswoman Su Lok said Lucent would keep part of the plant, which employs 5,200 people, for configuring and testing wireless equipment. 

 She said the company believes it will take about six months to wrap up the sale. 

 Lucent detailed the widely expected reorganization as it revealed a $1.02 billion loss for the final three months of 2000, the sixth time in a year the former AT&T unit has come up shy of public forecasts. 

 Early last year, Lucent shocked analysts by warning it would miss its earnings target, partly because competitor Nortel Networks had beaten it to market with faster optical telecommunications equipment. The profit warnings continued throughout 2000, prompting the ouster of chairman and chief executive Richard McGinn in October. 

 "We allowed the extraordinary expectations generated by Wall Street to set goals for us that we could not meet," said Henry Schacht, Lucent's new chairman and chief executive. "We tried to run the company too hot." 

 The downsizing plan calls for 10,000 positions to be eliminated, mostly through layoffs, some through retirements and normal attrition. Schacht said the layoffs will be spread across the company. 

 Lucent's total work force will also fall by another 16,500 jobs as part of a previously announced plan to spin off its Agere microelectronics unit as an independent company. 

 In Wednesday's trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Lucent rose 81 cents to $19.63, up more than 50 percent from its recent lows, but less than a quarter of the stock's peak value of $84.18 in December 1999. 

 Schacht told analysts Wednesday that Lucent has halted certain practices that contributed to the company's troubles and unpredictable results. Those include counting revenues from product sales before the items are delivered, and giving customers discounts if they agreed to move up the timing of purchases. 

 The company also plans to cut back on customer credit. 

 Schacht, a former Lucent CEO recently brought back from retirement, said revenues should be up "substantially" during the current quarter compared to the last one, mainly because of rising sales overseas. He said the cost-cutting will start improving the bottom line in the following quarter. 

 "With this announcement, we are outlining a comprehensive set of actions to rebuild the company for long-term, sustainable profitability," he said. 

 Lucent, still one of the world's top suppliers of fiber-optic equipment for telephone networks, said its loss from continuing operations amounted to 30 cents a share in its fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 31. That fell below even the dismal projections of 27 cents a share among analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 In the same quarter a year earlier, Lucent had net income from continuing operations of $1.08 billion, or 33 cents per share. 

 Revenues fell 26 percent to $5.84 billion from $7.9 billion a year earlier. 

 To cover expenses from the planned job cuts and other restructuring moves, Lucent expects to record a charge of $1.2 billion to $1.6 billion against earnings. Lucent's net income from continuing operations for all of fiscal 2000 was $1.68 billion. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 Lucent site: http://www.lucent.com

Rush

Document aprs000020010709dx1o02l35




 Lucent plans up to 16,000 job cuts, reports quarterly loss 

 By LINDA A. JOHNSON 
AP Business Writer
934 words
24 January 2001
21:26
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Telecom equipment maker Lucent Technologies plans to cut up to 16,000 jobs in a bid to reduce its annual costs by $2 billion after more than a year of increasingly severe financial and management problems. 

 The job cuts, representing 13 percent of Lucent's worldwide work force of 123,000, were announced Wednesday as the company reported a $1.02 billion loss from continuing operations for the final three months of 2000 - the sixth time in a year the former AT&T unit has come up shy of public forecasts. 

 The latest humiliation may mean the worst is over for the company, which opened for business four years ago with a promising future, enviable clientele and the stellar resources of the former Bell Labs as its research core. But after four years of lightning-speed expansion, the one-time favorite of investors and analysts is paying for the many mistakes it made, and workers and stockholders are hurting as well. 

 The downsizing plan calls for 10,000 positions to be eliminated, mostly through layoffs, some through retirements and normal attrition. 

 Henry Schacht, Lucent's chairman and chief executive, said layoffs will be spread across the company, although many will eliminate duplication in marketing, sales and administration. Factory and design jobs also will be cut as some products are eliminated and production volume is reduced. 

 Another 6,000 workers will leave Lucent under a plan to sell some factory operations to companies and then contract with them to manufacture products at set prices, as Lucent's competitors already do. 

 Lucent, based in Murray Hill, N.J., said a factory in Oklahoma City with 4,000 workers will be sold, as well as part of the operations of a Columbus, Ohio, plant where about 2,400 of the 4,400 workers will remain Lucent employees. Lucent said it expects those contractors to hire "a majority" of the workers affected. 

 Lucent's total work force will drop by another 16,500 jobs as part of a prior plan to spin off its Agere Systems microelectronics unit by September. An initial public offering is planned by spring. 

 In Wednesday's trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Lucent rose 81 cents to $19.63, up more than 50 percent from its recent lows, but less than a quarter of the stock's peak value of $84.18 in December 1999. 

 Lucent's dominance in the market for telephone network equipment, as well as its credibility with analysts, has eroded sharply as the company misjudged industry trends and encountered production problems. 

 "We allowed the extraordinary expectations generated by Wall Street to set goals for us that we could not meet," Schacht said. "We tried to run the company too hot." 

 Lucent bought up dozens of telecommunications and software companies to broaden its business after it was spun off from AT&T in September 1996. The company mushroomed into 11 units to try to grow faster, but Schacht said it didn't have sufficient ability to monitor their performance. 

 Then in fall 1999, Lucent shocked analysts by warning it would miss its earnings target, partly because competitor Nortel Networks had beaten it to market with faster optical telecommunications equipment, costing Lucent market share. The profit warnings continued throughout 2000, prompting the ouster of chairman and chief executive Richard McGinn in October. 

 Schacht, a former Lucent CEO recently brought back from retirement, said revenues should be up "substantially" this quarter compared to the last one, mainly because of rising sales overseas. He said the cost-cutting will start improving the bottom line in Lucent's third fiscal quarter. 

 "With this announcement, we are outlining a comprehensive set of actions to rebuild the company for long-term, sustainable profitability," he said. 

 Lucent, still one of the world's top suppliers of fiber-optic equipment for telephone networks, said its loss from continuing operations amounted to 30 cents a share in its fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 31. That fell below even the dismal projections of 27 cents a share among analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 In the same quarter a year earlier, Lucent had net income from continuing operations of $1.08 billion, or 33 cents per share. 

 Revenues fell 26 percent to $5.84 billion from $7.9 billion a year earlier. 

 To cover expenses from the planned job cuts and other restructuring moves, Lucent expects to record a charge of $1.2 billion to $1.6 billion against earnings. Lucent's net income from continuing operations for all of fiscal 2000 was $1.68 billion. 

 Analyst Paul Sagawa of Sanford C. Bernstein predicted Lucent will benefit from Wall Street's lowered expectations and regain its strength. 

 "They've got good technology," he said. "They also have strong relations with the customers that matter most, the big, old-line telecommunications carriers," which have far more cash than data and Internet service providers. 

 Schacht told analysts Wednesday that Lucent has halted certain practices that contributed to the company's troubles and unpredictable results. Those include counting revenues from product sales before the items are delivered, and giving customers discounts if they agreed to move up the timing of purchases. 

 The company also plans to cut back on customer credit. 

 Schacht, 66, said he has put together a turnaround team, including outside consultants, but plans to stay until a search outside the company produces a successor. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 Lucent site: http://www.lucent.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010709dx1o02j24




 Lucent plans up to 16,000 job cuts, reports quarterly loss 

 By LINDA A. JOHNSON 
AP Business Writer
934 words
24 January 2001
16:50
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Telecom equipment maker Lucent Technologies plans to cut up to 16,000 jobs in a bid to reduce its annual costs by $2 billion after more than a year of increasingly severe financial and management problems. 

 The job cuts, representing 13 percent of Lucent's worldwide work force of 123,000, were announced Wednesday as the company reported a $1.02 billion loss from continuing operations for the final three months of 2000 - the sixth time in a year the former AT&T unit has come up shy of public forecasts. 

 The latest humiliation may mean the worst is over for the company, which opened for business four years ago with a promising future, enviable clientele and the stellar resources of the former Bell Labs as its research core. But after four years of lightning-speed expansion, the one-time favorite of investors and analysts is paying for the many mistakes it made, and workers and stockholders are hurting as well. 

 The downsizing plan calls for 10,000 positions to be eliminated, mostly through layoffs, some through retirements and normal attrition. 

 Henry Schacht, Lucent's chairman and chief executive, said layoffs will be spread across the company, although many will eliminate duplication in marketing, sales and administration. Factory and design jobs also will be cut as some products are eliminated and production volume is reduced. 

 Another 6,000 workers will leave Lucent under a plan to sell some factory operations to companies and then contract with them to manufacture products at set prices, as Lucent's competitors already do. 

 Lucent, based in Murray Hill, N.J., said a factory in Oklahoma City with 4,000 workers will be sold, as well as part of the operations of a Columbus, Ohio, plant where about 2,400 of the 4,400 workers will remain Lucent employees. Lucent said it expects those contractors to hire "a majority" of the workers affected. 

 Lucent's total work force will drop by another 16,500 jobs as part of a prior plan to spin off its Agere Systems microelectronics unit by September. An initial public offering is planned by spring. 

 In Wednesday's trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Lucent rose 81 cents to $19.63, up more than 50 percent from its recent lows, but less than a quarter of the stock's peak value of $84.18 in December 1999. 

 Lucent's dominance in the market for telephone network equipment, as well as its credibility with analysts, has eroded sharply as the company misjudged industry trends and encountered production problems. 

 "We allowed the extraordinary expectations generated by Wall Street to set goals for us that we could not meet," Schacht said. "We tried to run the company too hot." 

 Lucent bought up dozens of telecommunications and software companies to broaden its business after it was spun off from AT&T in September 1996. The company mushroomed into 11 units to try to grow faster, but Schacht said it didn't have sufficient ability to monitor their performance. 

 Then in fall 1999, Lucent shocked analysts by warning it would miss its earnings target, partly because competitor Nortel Networks had beaten it to market with faster optical telecommunications equipment, costing Lucent market share. The profit warnings continued throughout 2000, prompting the ouster of chairman and chief executive Richard McGinn in October. 

 Schacht, a former Lucent CEO recently brought back from retirement, said revenues should be up "substantially" this quarter compared to the last one, mainly because of rising sales overseas. He said the cost-cutting will start improving the bottom line in Lucent's third fiscal quarter. 

 "With this announcement, we are outlining a comprehensive set of actions to rebuild the company for long-term, sustainable profitability," he said. 

 Lucent, still one of the world's top suppliers of fiber-optic equipment for telephone networks, said its loss from continuing operations amounted to 30 cents a share in its fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 31. That fell below even the dismal projections of 27 cents a share among analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 In the same quarter a year earlier, Lucent had net income from continuing operations of $1.08 billion, or 33 cents per share. 

 Revenues fell 26 percent to $5.84 billion from $7.9 billion a year earlier. 

 To cover expenses from the planned job cuts and other restructuring moves, Lucent expects to record a charge of $1.2 billion to $1.6 billion against earnings. Lucent's net income from continuing operations for all of fiscal 2000 was $1.68 billion. 

 Analyst Paul Sagawa of Sanford C. Bernstein predicted Lucent will benefit from Wall Street's lowered expectations and regain its strength. 

 "They've got good technology," he said. "They also have strong relations with the customers that matter most, the big, old-line telecommunications carriers," which have far more cash than data and Internet service providers. 

 Schacht told analysts Wednesday that Lucent has halted certain practices that contributed to the company's troubles and unpredictable results. Those include counting revenues from product sales before the items are delivered, and giving customers discounts if they agreed to move up the timing of purchases. 

 The company also plans to cut back on customer credit. 

 Schacht, 66, said he has put together a turnaround team, including outside consultants, but plans to stay until a search outside the company produces a successor. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 Lucent site: http://www.lucent.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010709dx1o02fpv




 Lucent plans up to 16,000 job cuts, reports quarterly loss 

 By LINDA A. JOHNSON 
AP Business Writer
940 words
24 January 2001
14:39
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Telecom equipment maker Lucent Technologies plans to cut up to 16,000 jobs in a bid to reduce its annual costs by $2 billion after more than a year of increasingly severe financial and management problems. 

 The job cuts, representing 13 percent of Lucent's worldwide work force of 123,000, were announced Wednesday as the company reported a $1.02 billion loss from continuing operations for the final three months of 2000 - the sixth time in a year the former AT&T unit has come up shy of public forecasts. 

 The latest humiliation may mean the worst is over for the company, which opened for business four years ago with a promising future, enviable clientele and the stellar resources of the former Bell Labs as its research core. But after four years of lightning-speed expansion, the one-time favorite of investors and analysts is paying for the many mistakes it made, and workers and stockholders are hurting as well. 

 The downsizing plan calls for 10,000 positions to be eliminated, mostly through layoffs, some through retirements and normal attrition. 

 Henry Schacht, Lucent's chairman and chief executive, said layoffs will be spread across the company, although many will eliminate duplication in marketing, sales and administration. Factory and design jobs also will be cut as some products are eliminated and production volume is reduced. 

 Another 6,000 workers will leave Lucent under a plan to sell some factory operations to companies and then contract with them to manufacture products at set prices, as Lucent's competitors already do. 

 Lucent, based in Murray Hill, N.J., said a factory in Oklahoma City with 4,000 workers will be sold, and 400 to 450 workers will be laid off within two weeks. 

 It will also sell part of the operations of a Columbus, Ohio, plant where about 2,400 of the 4,400 workers will remain Lucent employees. 

 Lucent said it expects those contractors to hire "a majority" of the workers affected. 

 Lucent's total work force will drop by another 16,500 jobs as part of a prior plan to spin off its Agere Systems microelectronics unit by September. An initial public offering is planned by spring. 

 In late-afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Lucent was up 56 cents a share at $19.38, less than a quarter of the stock's peak value of $84.18 in December 1999. 

 Lucent's dominance in the market for telephone network equipment, as well as its credibility with analysts, has eroded sharply as the company misjudged industry trends and encountered production problems. 

 "We allowed the extraordinary expectations generated by Wall Street to set goals for us that we could not meet," Schacht said. "We tried to run the company too hot." 

 Lucent bought up dozens of telecommunications and software companies to broaden its business after it was spun off from AT&T in September 1996. The company mushroomed into 11 units to try to grow faster, but Schacht said it didn't have sufficient ability to monitor their performance. 

 Then in fall 1999, Lucent shocked analysts by warning it would miss its earnings target, partly because competitor Nortel Networks had beaten it to market with faster optical telecommunications equipment, costing Lucent market share. The profit warnings continued throughout 2000, prompting the ouster of chairman and chief executive Richard McGinn in October. 

 Schacht, a former Lucent CEO recently brought back from retirement, said revenues should be up "substantially" this quarter compared to the last one, mainly because of rising sales overseas. He said the cost-cutting will start improving the bottom line in Lucent's third fiscal quarter. 

 "With this announcement, we are outlining a comprehensive set of actions to rebuild the company for long-term, sustainable profitability," he said. 

 Lucent, still one of the world's top suppliers of fiber-optic equipment for telephone networks, said its loss from continuing operations amounted to 30 cents a share in its fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 31. That fell below even the dismal projections of 27 cents a share among analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 In the same quarter a year earlier, Lucent had net income from continuing operations of $1.08 billion, or 33 cents per share. 

 Revenues fell 26 percent to $5.84 billion from $7.9 billion a year earlier. 

 To cover expenses from the planned job cuts and other restructuring moves, Lucent expects to record a charge of $1.2 billion to $1.6 billion against earnings. Lucent's net income from continuing operations for all of fiscal 2000 was $1.68 billion. 

 Analyst Paul Sagawa of Sanford C. Bernstein predicted Lucent will benefit from Wall Street's lowered expectations and regain its strength. 

 "They've got good technology," he said. "They also have strong relations with the customers that matter most, the big, old-line telecommunications carriers," which have far more cash than data and Internet service providers. 

 Schacht told analysts Wednesday that Lucent has halted certain practices that contributed to the company's troubles and unpredictable results. Those include counting revenues from product sales before the items are delivered, and giving customers discounts if they agreed to move up the timing of purchases. 

 The company also plans to cut back on customer credit. 

 Schacht, 66, said he has put together a turnaround team, including outside consultants, but plans to stay until a search outside the company produces a successor. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 Lucent site: http://www.lucent.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010709dx1o02ens




 Lucent plans up to 16,000 job cuts, reports quarterly loss 

 By LINDA A. JOHNSON 
AP Business Writer
934 words
24 January 2001
13:47
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Telecom equipment maker Lucent Technologies plans to cut up to 16,000 jobs in a bid to reduce its annual costs by $2 billion after more than a year of increasingly severe financial and management problems. 

 The job cuts, representing 13 percent of Lucent's worldwide work force of 123,000, were announced Wednesday as the company reported a $1.02 billion loss from continuing operations for the final three months of 2000 - the sixth time in a year the former AT&T unit has come up shy of public forecasts. 

 The latest humiliation may mean the worst is over for the company, which opened for business four years ago with a promising future, enviable clientele and the stellar resources of the former Bell Labs as its research core. But after four years of lightning-speed expansion, the one-time favorite of investors and analysts is paying for the many mistakes it made, and workers and stockholders are hurting as well. 

 The downsizing plan calls for 10,000 positions to be eliminated, mostly through layoffs, some through retirements and normal attrition. 

 Henry Schacht, Lucent's chairman and chief executive, said layoffs will be spread across the company, although many will eliminate duplication in marketing, sales and administration. Factory and design jobs also will be cut as some products are eliminated and production volume is reduced. 

 Another 6,000 workers will leave Lucent under a plan to sell some factory operations to companies and then contract with them to manufacture products at set prices, as Lucent's competitors already do. 

 Lucent, based in Murray Hill, N.J., said a factory in Oklahoma City with 4,000 workers will be sold, as well as part of the operations of a Columbus, Ohio, plant where about 2,400 of the 4,400 workers will remain Lucent employees. Lucent said it expects those contractors to hire "a majority" of the workers affected. 

 Lucent's total work force will drop by another 16,500 jobs as part of a prior plan to spin off its Agere Systems microelectronics unit by September. An initial public offering is planned by spring. 

 In Wednesday's trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Lucent rose 81 cents to $19.63, up more than 50 percent from its recent lows, but less than a quarter of the stock's peak value of $84.18 in December 1999. 

 Lucent's dominance in the market for telephone network equipment, as well as its credibility with analysts, has eroded sharply as the company misjudged industry trends and encountered production problems. 

 "We allowed the extraordinary expectations generated by Wall Street to set goals for us that we could not meet," Schacht said. "We tried to run the company too hot." 

 Lucent bought up dozens of telecommunications and software companies to broaden its business after it was spun off from AT&T in September 1996. The company mushroomed into 11 units to try to grow faster, but Schacht said it didn't have sufficient ability to monitor their performance. 

 Then in fall 1999, Lucent shocked analysts by warning it would miss its earnings target, partly because competitor Nortel Networks had beaten it to market with faster optical telecommunications equipment, costing Lucent market share. The profit warnings continued throughout 2000, prompting the ouster of chairman and chief executive Richard McGinn in October. 

 Schacht, a former Lucent CEO recently brought back from retirement, said revenues should be up "substantially" this quarter compared to the last one, mainly because of rising sales overseas. He said the cost-cutting will start improving the bottom line in Lucent's third fiscal quarter. 

 "With this announcement, we are outlining a comprehensive set of actions to rebuild the company for long-term, sustainable profitability," he said. 

 Lucent, still one of the world's top suppliers of fiber-optic equipment for telephone networks, said its loss from continuing operations amounted to 30 cents a share in its fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 31. That fell below even the dismal projections of 27 cents a share among analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 In the same quarter a year earlier, Lucent had net income from continuing operations of $1.08 billion, or 33 cents per share. 

 Revenues fell 26 percent to $5.84 billion from $7.9 billion a year earlier. 

 To cover expenses from the planned job cuts and other restructuring moves, Lucent expects to record a charge of $1.2 billion to $1.6 billion against earnings. Lucent's net income from continuing operations for all of fiscal 2000 was $1.68 billion. 

 Analyst Paul Sagawa of Sanford C. Bernstein predicted Lucent will benefit from Wall Street's lowered expectations and regain its strength. 

 "They've got good technology," he said. "They also have strong relations with the customers that matter most, the big, old-line telecommunications carriers," which have far more cash than data and Internet service providers. 

 Schacht told analysts Wednesday that Lucent has halted certain practices that contributed to the company's troubles and unpredictable results. Those include counting revenues from product sales before the items are delivered, and giving customers discounts if they agreed to move up the timing of purchases. 

 The company also plans to cut back on customer credit. 

 Schacht, 66, said he has put together a turnaround team, including outside consultants, but plans to stay until a search outside the company produces a successor. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 Lucent site: http://www.lucent.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010709dx1o02ech




 UPDATE 3-Coke bottler posts small profit, shares rally. 

 By Paul Simao 
829 words
23 January 2001
22:15
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 (Recasts lead with share gain, adds closing stock price in paragraph 6, background in paragraph 11) 

 ATLANTA, Jan 23 (Reuters) - Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. , buoyed by a strong performance in its key North American market, on Tuesday reported a quarterly profit that met Wall Street's lowered expectations, triggering a rally in the soft drink bottler's depressed shares. 

 The Atlanta-based company, the largest bottler of Coca-Cola soft drinks, also issued 2001 earnings guidance roughly in line with a forecast that it had guided down last month. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises, which warned last May that currency-related weakness in Europe would cut profits in 2000, earned $15 million, or 4 cents a share, including one-time items related to a tax benefit, in the fourth quarter, compared with a year-earlier loss of $18 million, or 4 cents a share. 

 Excluding the items, Coca-Cola Enterprises earned 1 cent a share, in line with analysts' consensus forecast compiled by research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. Before the profit warning in May, analysts had expected the bottler to earn 5 cents a share in the fourth quarter. 

 Revenue for the period rose to $3.56 billion from $3.51 billion a year earlier. 

 Shares of Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is about 40 percent owned by No. 1 soft drink company Coca-Cola Co. , gained 14/16, or 4.9 percent, to close at $18-13/16 on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock's 52-week range is $14 to $30-1/4. 

 "In terms of the financial results, they were pretty much in line with expectations," said analyst Skip Carpenter of Credit Suisse First Boston in New York. 

 Carpenter, who recommends holding the bottler's stock and expects it to reach $18 within 12 months, said the company's volume performance in the fourth quarter was slightly better than expected. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises said its consolidated physical case bottle and can volumes, a key measure of financial health in the soft-drink industry, grew 2.5 percent in the period. 

 That figure included growth of 1.5 percent in its key North American market, boosted by a strong performance in the United States in December, and a 6.5 percent rise in Europe. 

 In its fourth-quarter volume update released early December, the bottler said it expected "positive" but slower growth in its North American market and 4 to 5 percent growth in Europe. 

 VOLUME GROWTH SEEN FOR 2001 

 The bottler reiterated that it expected volumes this year to grow 3 to 4 percent in North America, compared with a slight contraction in 2000, and to rise 4 to 6 percent in Europe, about in line with last year's growth. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises also said it projected cash operating profit would rise 6 to 7 percent in 2001, and earnings per share would increase 15 to 22 percent, with most of the growth coming in the second and third quarters. 

 Based on the 2000 profit of 50 cents a share reported on Tuesday, the new guidance puts earnings roughly between 58 cents and 61 cents a share. In early December the company said it expected a profit of 60 cents a share, 8 cents shy of the First Call consensus estimate at that time. 

 Last month's profit warning, like the one in May, stemmed from currency issues related to a strong British pound and weak euro, which hurt the bottler's sales by making the products of European competitors more attractive in the British market. 

 The bottler said fourth-quarter volume figures reflected healthier trends among consumers toward its marketing, pricing and promotional activities. 

 "We expect these positive trends to accelerate this year on the strength of enhanced national marketing programs from the Coca-Cola Co., our own local brand-building initiatives, and more moderate, market-based price increases," President and Chief Operating Officer John Alm said in a statement. 

 But some analysts expressed a more cautious note about the company's immediate future in the wake of last year's profit warnings. 

 "While we are optimistic that trends for CCE are improving going into 2001," said Merrill Lynch analyst Douglas Lane, "we prefer to wait for better visibility on volume and profit trends as we get closer to the important selling season before becoming more interested in the stock." He maintained his neutral/accumulate rating on the bottler. 

 Analyst Marc Cohen of Goldman Sachs in New York said the currency problem has eased up somewhat. "At this point," he said, "it is safe to say that there is less risk of currency-translation impact on CCE's business in 2001." 

 Cohen, who described the fourth-quarter results as "encouraging," said boosting volume growth in North America remained the main challenge for Coca-Cola Enterprises. He has a "recommended for purchase" rating and 12-month target price of $25 on the stock. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1n06znz




 UPDATE 2-Coca-Cola bottler posts small profit. 

 By Paul Simao 
775 words
23 January 2001
19:14
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 (recasts with additional analyst comments, background, updates stock price) 

 ATLANTA, Jan 23 (Reuters) - Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., the largest bottler of Coca-Cola soft drinks, on Tuesday reported a quarterly profit that reversed a year-earlier loss and just met Wall Street's lowered expectations. 

 The Atlanta company also issued 2001 earnings guidance more or less in line with a forecast that it had guided down last month. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises, which announced last May that currency-related weakness in Europe would reduce earnings in 2000, said it earned $15 million, or 4 cents a share, including nonrecurring items related to a tax benefit, in the fourth quarter, compared with a year-earlier loss of $18 million, or 4 cents a share. 

 Excluding the items, Coca-Cola Enterprises earned 1 cent a share, in line with the current analysts' consensus forecast compiled by research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. Before the profit warning in May, analysts had expected the bottler to earn 5 cents a share in the fourth quarter. 

 Revenue for the period rose to $3.56 billion from $3.51 billion a year earlier. 

 Shares of Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is about 40 percent owned by No. 1 soft drink company Coca-Cola Co., gained 7/8 to $18-13/16 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock's 52-week range is $14 to $30-1/4. 

 "In terms of the financial results, they were pretty much in line with expectations," said analyst Skip Carpenter of Credit Suisse First Boston in New York. 

 Carpenter, who has a hold rating and a 12-month target price of $18 on the bottler's shares, said the company's volume performance in the fourth quarter was slightly better than expected. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises said its consolidated physical case bottle and can volumes, a key measure of financial health in the soft-drink industry, grew 2.5 percent in the period. 

 That figure included growth of 1.5 percent in its key North American market, boosted by a strong performance in the United States in December, and a 6.5 percent rise in Europe. 

 VOLUME GROWTH SEEN FOR 2001 

 The bottler reiterated that it expected volumes this year to grow 3 to 4 percent in North America, compared with a slight contraction in 2000, and to rise 4 to 6 percent in Europe, about in line with last year's growth. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises also said it projected cash operating profit would rise 6 to 7 percent in 2001, and earnings per share would increase 15 to 22 percent, with most of the growth coming in the second and third quarters. 

 Based on the 2000 profit of 50 cents a share reported on Tuesday, the new guidance puts earnings roughly between 58 cents and 61 cents a share. In early December the company said it expected a 60-cent profit, 8 cents shy of the First Call consensus estimate at that time. 

 Last month's profit warning, like the one in May, stemmed from currency issues related to a strong British pound and weak euro, which hurt the bottler's sales by making the products of European competitors more attractive in the British market. 

 The bottler said fourth-quarter volume figures reflected healthier trends among consumers toward its marketing, pricing and promotional activities. 

 "We expect these positive trends to accelerate this year on the strength of enhanced national marketing programs from the Coca-Cola Co., our own local brand-building initiatives, and more moderate, market-based price increases," President and Chief Operating Officer John Alm said in a statement. 

 But some analysts expressed a more cautious note about the company's immediate future in the wake of last year's profit warnings. 

 "While we are optimistic that trends for CCE are improving going into 2001," said Merrill Lynch analyst Douglas Lane, "we prefer to wait for better visibility on volume and profit trends as we get closer to the important selling season before becoming more interested in the stock." He maintained his neutral/accumulate rating on the bottler. 

 Analyst Marc Cohen of Goldman Sachs in New York said the currency problem has eased up somewhat. "At this point," he said, "it is safe to say that there is less risk of currency-translation impact on CCE's business in 2001." 

 Cohen, who described the fourth-quarter results as "encouraging," said boosting volume growth in North America remained the main challenge for Coca-Cola Enterprises. He has a "recommended for purchase" rating and 12-month target price of $25 on the stock. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1n06z6s




 INTERVIEW-ECI Telecom sees IPO delay for demerged companies. 

 By Tova Cohen 
716 words
23 January 2001
13:47
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TEL AVIV, Jan 23 (Reuters) - Israeli communications equipment maker ECI Telecom said on Tuesday it would apply the brakes to the planned listing of five units worth an estimated $7 billion by postponing the first planned offering in March. 

 The group no longer considered it realistic to aim for a March listing for its transport unit Enavis Networks because of poor market conditions, its president and chief executive officer told Reuters in an interview. 

 CEO Doron Inbar's comments come a day after ECI issued its second profit warning for the fourth quarter of 2000. 

 On January 1, 2001, ECI completed a four-month process of demerging into five separate companies - Enavis; Lightscape Networks (optical networks); Innowave (wireless); access systems (broadband); and next generation telephony solutions. 

 Officials at ECI and its parent company Koor Industries had hoped to list Enavis on the Nasdaq by March. 

 "I don't think March is realistic because of what is going on in the market," Inbar told Reuters. "But we have secured ourselves lines of credit to have the breath to wait even a year or more." 

 ECI was talking to several strategic investors about funding "that will replace banks' money with smart money", he said. 

 Koor CEO Jonathan Kolber said the five companies might not go public at all during 2001 because of the weak market. 

 "Our focus has shifted to bringing in some mezzanine technology investors to buy 10-20 percent of the businesses to make sure we are fully funded for the next year to year and a half, just like a start-up would do," said Kolber, who is also chairman of ECI. 

 He said Enavis and Lightscape were likely to secure financing first as they were the most mature companies. 

 "We have term sheets. We hope in the next couple of months to make some announcements," Kolber said. 

 Inbar said looking ahead, the key element was to realise the value in each of its demerged companies. Analysts have valued the five separate companies at over $7 billion, compared with ECI's market capitalisation of $1.4 billion. 

 ECI SEES FURTHER REVENUE SHORTFALL 

 After the market closed on Monday, ECI said it would report an additional revenue shortfall in 2000 of $60-$75 million and that full year revenues are expected to be $1.16-$1.175 billion. 

 The shortfall is attributable to the initial implementation of new accounting procedures set by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as a decline in legacy DCME (digital circuit multiplication equipment) sales and lower than expected sales of legacy optical network products. 

 For the fourth quarter revenues are expected to be $290-$300 million. ECI expects a fourth quarter operating loss of $35-$40 million before restructuring expenses and one-time write-offs of $100-$130 million, mainly from goodwill write-offs and termination costs for 400 employees. 

 In December ECI said it expected fourth quarter revenues of $310-$330 million and an operating loss of $15-$25 million. 

 The First Call consensus estimate before ECI's latest warning was for a fourth quarter loss of $0.02 a share and full year earnings per share of $0.88, before one-time charges. 

 Inbar said the accounting changes, known as SAB 101, deal with delayed recognition of income from installation, acceptance and distribution of products and affect companies whose products require significant installation. This is resulting in shifting of some revenue from 2000 to 2001. 

 "Certainly, not an insignificant amount of the (revenue) decline is shifting into 2001," Inbar said. The CEO also said the company now expected lower sales than it had forseen in December for its legacy DCME and SDH (synchronous digital hierarchy) products. 

 "The legacy DCME is still selling and margins there are excellent so there's no reason to stop selling the product. But it's a fraction of the sales we used to have," Inbar said. 

 SDH on the other hand has evolved into a new generation product, which is Lightscape's new optical platform. 

 Inbar also said sales were strong at its broadband access company with long-term orders from several large telecom companies. He estimated the broadband company would become profitable by the third quarter of 2001. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1n06xrm




 Chartered Q4 profit seen meeting forecasts. 

 By Jennifer Tan 
561 words
23 January 2001
00:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 SINGAPORE, Jan 23 (Reuters) - Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing is seen posting fourth quarter results matching its earlier guidance but the full-year performance will be dismal as weak demand and excess inventory take their toll, analysts say. Chartered, the world's third largest independent chip foundry, whose American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) are traded on Nasdaq, will release earnings for the October-December quarter on January 30. 

 Five analysts polled by Reuters saw Chartered posting net profit of between US$69 million and US$77 million for the fourth quarter, against earnings of $71.6 million in the third quarter. 

 "Chartered's fourth quarter earnings should be in line with expectations as the slowdown in the industry had not really hit them yet," said Chong Yoon Chou, portfolio manager with Aberdeen Asset Management, which manages US$3.5 billion out of Singapore. 

 "But the concern of every investor is what comes thereafter, especially given difficult market conditions in the first quarter (of 2001)." 

 In late December, Chartered reiterated its earlier earnings guidance for the fourth quarter but warned it may have to cut its previous revenue and earnings estimates for 2001. 

 Chartered's major customers include U.S. heavyweights Agilent Technologies, Lucent Technologies, Broadcom Corp and Swedish telecoms equipment maker Ericsson. 

 NO SURPRISES SEEN 

 Chartered's shares have plummeted some 60 percent over the last six months, hitting a year low of S$4.16 on January 3. They closed at S$6.10, down 20 cents, in Singapore on Monday, with the ADRs later falling 3.87 percent to $34-1/8. 

 Analysts pegged fair value for the shares at between S$4.95 and S$8.75. 

 "We expect the results to be in line with our forecasts, which were adjusted following the company's profit warning in December 2000," said David Toh, an analyst at ING Barings Securities. 

 Toh has pencilled in profit of $72.1 million for the quarter. 

 Patrick Yau, an analyst with ABN AMRO Asia Securities who has projected fourth quarter profit of $73 million, said he was focusing more on Chartered's guidance for 2001. 

 "We are more keen on what they are going to say for the rest of the year as real business conditions out there are pretty negative and there have been price cuts in various parts of the world," he added. 

 IMPACT FELT THIS YEAR 

 Most analysts have slashed their estimates for Chartered's earnings this year given the weaker demand and excess inventory in the personal computer and communication sectors. 

 "We have revised down significantly our forecasts for Chartered in 2001, as we expect utilisation rates to fall to 78 percent in the first quarter of this year given the bleak industry outlook," said Toh of ING Barings. 

 Chartered's utilisation rate - the capacity at which its production plants run - stood at 103 percent in the third quarter of 2000. 

 Toh estimated the company's net profit would slump a hefty 35 percent to $156.1 million in 2001. 

 "We expect average selling prices for the company to fall in 2001 due to competitive price erosion and a poorer product mix," he said. Recovery in the industry would probably take place only in the third or final quarters of this year, provided the U.S. economy had a soft landing, analysts said. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1n06w7h




 Dell issues  profit warning . 

 By Richard Adams. 
567 words
23 January 2001
The Guardian
GRDN
23
English
(c) 2001

 Dell Computers, one of the world's largest personal computer manufacturers, yesterday joined the queue of hi-tech companies warning of faltering demand and reduced earnings and profits. 

 Following similar gloomy signals on slowing computer sales in recent weeks from Apple, Hewlett-Packard and Gateway, Dell announced it had slashed its earnings expectations for the three months to the end of January to 18-19 cents per share, down from its previous estimate of 26 cents (17.7p). 

 The company founded by 35-year-old Michael Dell - a friend of George Bush - added to the rain on the former Texas governor's inauguration parade, only one day after he entered to the White House, blaming `deterioration in global economic conditions and overall demand' for the weaker earnings figures. 

 The news also cast a pall over the start of Wall Street's working week. Dell's shares slipped more than 6% to $24 in early trading, down by more than $1 compared with Friday's closing price on the New York markets. 

 The Nasdaq and Dow Jones share indices also made early losses, as the warning from the world's second largest PC maker dragged down the rest of the equity market. 

 Wall Street analysts are now waiting to see if the poor run of results for the sector at the end of last year is being repeated in sales and performance for the first quarter of this year. 

 Dell said it expected its fourth-quarter revenues to rise at least 25% from a year earlier, to between $8.5bn and $8.6bn, slightly below its previous estimate of $8.7bn, made back in November. 

 Jim Schneider, the com pany's chief financial officer, said that the magnitude of the economic slowdown at the end of last year `has been greater than anyone expected'. But a strategy of aggressive price cuts had helped bolster Dell's unit sales. 

 `Had we not taken that action it is likely that revenues for the quarter would have been significantly lower,' he said. 

 The company attempted to paint the earnings warning in a positive light, pointing to encouraging growth in market share, and robust sales of computer notebooks and internet servers. 

 Mr Schneider said Dell expected to see its unit sales rise by 40% year-on-year for the fourth quarter, which is likely to be four times faster than growth in the overall market. 

 Analysts expect PC sales - which ran at 20% growthlast year - to fall to single digits growth this year. 

 Mr Dell hinted that the company was prepared to aggressively cut its costs to maintain its sales growth. 

 `We are bringing the full competitive force of our direct business model to bear on the marketplace to benefit customers, accelerate market-share gains and position Dell for profitable, long-term growth,' he said. `We intend to succeed on all counts.' 

 Despite the faltering earnings figures, Mr Dell remains the wealthiest businessman in Austin, Texas, where the company is housed on two huge campuses. Mr Dell lives in a third campus in Austin, a 33,000 sq-ft compound known as `the castle". When local tax officials attempted to gauge the value of the walled compound they were refused entry. They hired a plane and used aerial photographs to value the property at $35m - although Mr Dell had it reduced to $11m on appeal. 

Document grdn000020010712dx1n00x12




 SCI's 2nd-Quarter Earnings Hit Target, Firm Issues  Profit Warning 

442 words
23 January 2001
21:54
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 HUNTSVILLE, Ala. -- SCI Systems Inc. posted a 14% jump in fiscal second-quarter net income as revenue rose a better-than-expected 20%. However, the company issued a bearish forecast in a subsequent conference call. 

 For the quarter ended Dec. 24, the electronics manufacturer reported net income of $56 million, or 37 cents a share, compared with $49.3 million, or 34 cents a share, a year earlier. 

 Excluding acquisition-related expenses, SCI (SCI) said it would have earned 42 cents a share, matching the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Revenue increased 20% to $2.6 billion, with telecommunication sales accounting for about 30% of total sales. Personal-computer business was about 18% and peripherals made up nearly 10% of revenue. 

 Chairman and Chief Executive Gene Sapp said, "Despite the recent slowdown in the technology markets, we exceeded our sales projections." However, he added SCI did have to pay higher prices for some components because of continued supply tightness. 

 Mr. Sapp also said that while communications business continued to grow as a percentage of total business, "higher-than-anticipated sale of high-end PCs and continued overall slowness in set-top box demand caused a slightly less-favorable mix," which cut into earnings. Earnings were also pressured by by higher interest costs. 

 SCI expects fiscal third-quarter earnings excluding items of 29 cents a share and fourth-quarter earnings of 39 cents a share on revenue of $2.15 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively. The First Call estimates were 44 cents and 51 cents a share, respectively. In the year-earlier third quarter, SCI earned $49.7 million, or 34 cents a share, on sales of $2.22 billion. The company had year-ago earnings in the fourth quarter of 42 cents a share on $2.31 billion in sales. 

 SCI said it was cutting its forecasts because of the current economic outlook, the potential of lower capital investments by the telecommunications sector, lower-than-forecasted set-top box revenue, a slowdown in the PC industry and lower-than-expected near-term revenue from its acquisition of Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson's Lynchburg, Va., operations. 

 Dell Computer Corp. (DELL), Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) and Nortel Networks Corp. (NT) each generated more than 10% of SCI's sales for the first six months of fiscal 2001. Dell and H-P have cut their near-term earnings forecast in recent days, and Nortel expects 2001 earnings to come in at the low end of expectations. 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020010711dx1n00a0f




 EGL Issues 4th-Quarter Warning; Laid Off 300 Workers Last Week 

483 words
23 January 2001
03:30
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 HOUSTON -- EGL Inc., which offers airfreight-transportation services, late Monday issued a fourth-quarter profit warning, blaming startup costs from its increased effort to serve the Asian market. 

 The company also announced it laid off nearly 300 U.S. workers last week in anticipation of a weaker economy and a traditionally soft first quarter. 

 EGL (EAGL) now expects earnings excluding items of 35 cents to 37 cents a share on revenue of $505 million to $515 million. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of 41 cents a share. A year earlier, EGL earned 36 cents a share on revenue of $410 million. The company said dedicating a leased aircraft serving the U.S.-Asia market cut fourth-quarter earnings by four cents a share. 

 In addition, EGL will record fourth-quarter charges of $57 million, or $1.19 a share, from its acquisition of Circle International Group and other unusual expenses. 

 For 2001, EGL said it expects earnings of $1.60 to $1.70 a share - excluding an estimated first quarter charge of $6 million, or 13 cents a share - on revenue of $2.1 billion to $2.3 billion. 

 The company said its 2001 projection reflects expected cost savings and merger synergies. The $6 million first quarter charge includes $5 million for costs related to the recent Circle merger. 

 The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of 23 cents a diluted share, before items, for the current first quarter; and $1.63 a diluted share, excluding items, for 2001. 

 Last week's job cuts are on top of those planned as a result of closing Circle's San Francisco headquarters. The additional reduction of staff is expected to save more than $11 million a year after the payment of severance costs, EGL said. 

 Other cost-cutting moves include closing Circle's logistics facility at Los Angeles International Airport, reducing the number of short-term leased aircraft, renegotiating lease rates and terms, renegotiating and reducing air and ground line-haul rates in the U.S., renegotiating some Circle customer contracts and accelerating the consolidation of duplicate field office. 

 EGL also said it expects to set aside $5 million for legal expenses, as the company has been unable to come to an agreement with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or the Philadelphia plaintiffs regarding job-discrimination charges made in 1997 and involving women and minorities. 

 In December, U.S. District Court Judge Marvin Katz in Philadelphia issued a preliminary ruling denying class-action status in the case. However, the EEOC is now seeking to join the case, which could allow class-action claims to be brought, the company said. The EEOC is seeking compensatory and punitive damages. 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020010711dx1n009sv




 Israel's Koor Down More Than 4% On 2nd ECI  Profit Warning 

251 words
23 January 2001
09:01
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 JERUSALEM -(Dow Jones)- Shares in Koor Industries Ltd. (KOR) are down 4.1% in early trade in Tel Aviv Tuesday after its ECI Telecom Ltd. (ECIL) holding announced a second fourth quarter profit warning. 

 At 0840 GMT, Koor shares on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange were down at 257.50 shekels ($ILS4.1410) from ILS268.60. 

 Earlier Tuesday ECI announced that it expects to report an operating loss, excluding one-time charges, of $35 million to $40 million for the fourth quarter, on revenue of $290 million to $300 million. 

 It also said it plans to restate its results for the first quarter, second quarter and third quarter of 2000 to implement the SAB 101 accounting change. 

 ECI trades only on the Nasdaq Stock Market. It issued its first fourth quarter profit warning in December. 

 The telecommunications company said SAB 101, a decline in sales of digital circuit multiplication equipment and lower-than-expected sales of optical network products are contributing to a revenue shortfall of $60 million to $75 million for the fourth quarter. 

 ECI Telecom said fourth quarter results will also include $100 million to $130 million in charges from restructuring and one-time write-offs. 

 In the year-ago fourth quarter, the company earned $42.9 million excluding items, or 47 cents a diluted share, on revenue of $305.5 million. 

 -By Amy Teibel, Dow Jones Newswires; 972-2-537-6985; Amy.Teibel@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx1n00bzp




 Compaq Puts 2001 Rev Growth At 6%-8% 

 By Bob Sechler 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
1,324 words
23 January 2001
23:02
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 AUSTIN, Texas -(Dow Jones)- Compaq Computer Corp.'s (CPQ) sales will grow by only 6% to 8% in 2001, slower than previous guidance of 10% sales growth, Compaq executives forecast in a conference call Tuesday. 

 Year-over-year growth should come in about 3% to 5% in the first half of the year, before accelerating in the second half, Compaq Chief Financial Officer Jesse Greene said. 

 "The year is likely to be back-end-loaded as general market conditions improve," Greene said during a conference call with analysts to discuss Compaq's fourth-quarter results. 

 Greene forecast earnings-per-share growth for 2001 at 20% to 25%, which is in line with previous guidance from the company. 

 First-quarter earnings are expected to come in at 21 cents a share, in line with Wall Street expectations, on revenue of about $9.6 billion, which would be flat with the year-ago period. 

 Sales in the first-quarter "will likely be flat, which we think reflects" difficult market conditions, Chief Executive Michael Capellas said. 

 But Compaq will be able to maintain earnings-per-share guidance despite the decline in overall sales expectations by focusing on higher-margin business lines, Capellas said. 

 Earlier Tuesday, Compaq reported fourth-quarter earnings of 30 cents a share, excluding charges, on sales of $11.5 billion. The results beat analysts' lowered consensus earnings expectations of 28 cents a share by coming in at the high end of what Capellas had told Wall Street to expect in a December profit warning. 

 Prior to the December warning, Compaq had been expected to earn about 37 cents a share on fourth-quarter sales of $12.4 billion. The company earned 19 cents a share in the year-ago period on sales of $10.47 billion. 

 Compaq shares climbed slightly in regular trading Tuesday, closing up 23 cents, or 1.2%, at $20.05 from Monday's close at $19.82. Volume was 12.3 million shares, compared with a daily average of $14.3 million. 

 The shares climbed sharply after-hours immediately following the company's earnings release, reaching $22.55, according to Reuters Instinet. 

 Compaq executives called the company's projection of 6% to 8% sales growth for 2001 conservative. 

 They acknowledged there's a chance Compaq will temporarily lose some market share for low-end products as competitors continue slashing prices in the early part of the year. But the trend will be temporary because extremely low pricing "can't last," they said. 

 "There's no question we saw a very aggressive price environment led by Dell (Computer Corp.), to be honest, in their attempt to acquire some share at the expense of margin," Compaq Vice President Mike Winkler told Dow Jones Newswires in an interview following the conference call. "We do not believe in growth for growth's sake." 

 He said Compaq's strategy for 2001 will continue to be to focus on its higher-margin businesses, such as enterprise computing. 

 The company found much to crow about during its conference call despite the overall downward revenue guidance for 2001. 

 Revenue from enterprise computing climbed about 20% year-over-year to $4.1 billion. 

 Sales of Compaq's new "Wildfire" servers, or Alphaserver GS product line, ended the year at $800 million, in line with expectations. CEO Capellas said the line will hit $1 billion in total sales in the first quarter. 

 In addition, the company's corporate PC division - which had lost money through much of 1999 - continued to show profitability in the fourth quarter, posting operating income of $113 million, up from a year-ago loss of $79 million. 

 But Compaq's fourth-quarter numbers also showed some blemishes. 

 Its consumer division recorded a slight loss for the quarter, and revenue from its global services division slid about 5% from the year-ago period. 

 -By Bob Sechler; Dow Jones Newswires; 512-236-9637 

 Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 


  (This report was originally published late Tuesday.)



AUSTIN, Texas (Dow Jones)--Compaq Computer Corp.'s (CPQ) sales will
grow by only 6% to 8% in 2001, slower than previous guidance of 10%
sales growth, Compaq executives forecast in a conference call Tuesday.



Year-over-year growth should come in about 3% to 5% in the first half
of the year, before accelerating in the second half, Compaq Chief
Financial Officer Jesse Greene said.



"The year is likely to be back-end-loaded as general market conditions
improve," Greene said during a conference call with analysts to discuss
Compaq's fourth-quarter results.



Greene forecast earnings-per-share growth for 2001 at 20% to 25%,
which is in line with previous guidance from the company.



First-quarter earnings are expected to come in at 21 cents a share, in
line with Wall Street expectations, on revenue of about $9.6 billion,
which would be flat with the year-ago period.



Sales in the first-quarter "will likely be flat, which we think
reflects" difficult market conditions, Chief Executive Michael Capellas
said.



But Compaq will be able to maintain earnings-per-share guidance
despite the decline in overall sales expectations by focusing on
higher-margin business lines, Capellas said.



Earlier Tuesday, Compaq reported fourth-quarter earnings of 30 cents a
share, excluding charges, on sales of $11.5 billion. The results beat
analysts' lowered consensus earnings expectations of 28 cents a share by
coming in at the high end of what Capellas had told Wall Street to
expect in a December profit warning.



Prior to the December warning, Compaq had been expected to earn about
37 cents a share on fourth-quarter sales of $12.4 billion. The company
earned 19 cents a share in the year-ago period on sales of $10.47
billion.



Compaq shares climbed slightly in regular trading Tuesday, closing up
23 cents, or 1.2%, at $20.05 from Monday's close at $19.82. Volume was
12.3 million shares, compared with a daily average of $14.3 million.



The shares climbed sharply after-hours immediately following the
company's earnings release, reaching $22.55, according to Reuters
Instinet.



Compaq executives called the company's projection of 6% to 8% sales
growth for 2001 conservative.



They acknowledged there's a chance Compaq will temporarily lose some
market share for low-end products as competitors continue slashing
prices in the early part of the year. But the trend will be temporary
because extremely low pricing "can't last," they said.



"There's no question we saw a very aggressive price environment led by
Dell (Computer Corp.), to be honest, in their attempt to acquire some
share at the expense of margin," Compaq Vice President Mike Winkler told
Dow Jones Newswires in an interview following the conference call. "We
do not believe in growth for growth's sake."



He said Compaq's strategy for 2001 will continue to be to focus on its
higher-margin businesses, such as enterprise computing.



The company found much to crow about during its conference call
despite the overall downward revenue guidance for 2001.



Revenue from enterprise computing climbed about 20% year-over-year to
$4.1 billion.



Sales of Compaq's new "Wildfire" servers, or Alphaserver GS product
line, ended the year at $800 million, in line with expectations. CEO
Capellas said the line will hit $1 billion in total sales in the first
quarter.



In addition, the company's corporate PC division - which had lost
money through much of 1999 - continued to show profitability in the
fourth quarter, posting operating income of $113 million, up from a
year-ago loss of $79 million.



But Compaq's fourth-quarter numbers also showed some blemishes.



Its consumer division recorded a slight loss for the quarter, and
revenue from its global services division slid about 5% from the
year-ago period.



-By Bob Sechler; Dow Jones Newswires; 512-236-9637


Document dj00000020010711dx1n027n1




 MARKET TALK: Compaq 4Q Looks Good; Backs '01 EPS Growth 

1,318 words
23 January 2001
21:43
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



4:42 (Dow Jones) Compaq (CPQ) 4Q looks good (up against revised
numbers, of course.) EPS beat view by 2c, and company backs 2001 EPS
growth view of 20%-25%. Firm does say, however, that 1H will be tough.
(TG)



4:25 (Dow Jones) LSI hit 4Q views, but 1Q will be well-below views.
Given other tech outlooks recently, though, does it matter? Compaq (CPQ)
expected at 4:30 ET. (TG)



4:18 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg's Jay Yannello increased his 12-month
price target for Dynegy Inc. (DYN) to $63 from $61 to reflect the
company's higher earnings guidance for 2001.  Yannello now expects the
company will earn $1.80 a share this year, an estimate he calls
"conservative." With strong 4Q results from Enron Corp. (ENE) and
Dynegy, Yannello is expecting to see more of the same from El Paso
Energy Corp. (EPG) and Williams Cos. (WMB). (CCC)



4:09 (Dow Jones) CIBC World Markets telecom equipment analyst Jim
Jungjohann reiterated his buy rating on Tellabs (TLAB), citing several
factors, including the expected commercial introduction of a new optical
switching product late this year, a healthy backlog and improving
traction with existing optical switching products. Jungjohann said he is
tweaking his 2001 estimates, following guidance by the company Tuesday,
that will slightly back-end load revenue of $4.3 billion given expected
near-term spending softness by telecommunications companies. (JDB)



4:03 (Dow Jones) Equities post solid gains, with Nasdaq Comp. adding
3%. Techs manage to shrug off TI warning of late Monday, with 5.9% gain
in Intel leading DJIA higher. The stock side of Wall Street also seemed
not to care about increasing talk that rates are going to get cut by
only a quarter-percentage point next week. Good numbers from EMC and
Merrill help. Key profit reports coming from Compaq, Broadcom later
Tuesday. DJIA gains 64 to 10642, Nasdaq adds 82 to 2840, and S&P 500
improves 16 to 1359 (preliminary). (TG)



3:51 (Dow Jones) Traders say they are worried that recent gains in
Nasdaq Composite Index have created too much complacency in the market.
They point to the CBOE Volatility reading, VIX, which has slumped to its
lowest level of three months. The betting is that the equity market tops
out shortly, and may roll back over. (ROB)



3:45 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps gains take the market to solid resistance
levels. Off-floor analyst says if contract can close in the 1370s and
then clear that level, it could burst to the 1412 area. However, he
said, inability to do that could leave March S&Ps consolidating ahead of
Greenspan's speech Thursday and the FOMC meeting next week. (DMC)



3:39 (Dow Jones) Fed Funds futures trader says with a close of 94.425
(down 0.47), Feb. Fed Funds pricing in a 70% chance of a 50 basis point
ease by Jan. 31. Also, the June contract, last down 0.75 at 94.90,
pricing in an 80% chance of a 100 basis point ease by the end of June.
"We're still pricing in eases, just not as aggressively," trader says.
(CMN)



3:34 (Dow Jones) Equity players will get another big dose of key
earnings after the bell Tuesday, led by Compaq (CPQ), which is expected
to post 4Q net of 28c a share. Compaq warned back in December that
estimates at that time were way too high. Among others on tap for later
are Broadcom (BRCM), Siebel (SEBL), Kimberly Clark (KMB) and SCI Systems
(SCI). (TG)



3:25 (Dow Jones) Bank investors may be moving into the wrong banks,
warns analyst Judah Kraushaar of Merrill Lynch. With interest rates
falling, investors have sold trust banks to make room for more
credit-sensitive financials. Tsk, tsk. Investors have become
"excessively negative" on the growth prospects for the trust banks,
which should deliver 14%-15% sustainable earnings growth. The stocks
have been beaten down, and now offer an attractive entry point.
Kraushaar sees the best buys in Bank of New York Co. (BK) and Mellon
Financial Corp. (MEL), which are down nearly 20% off their annual highs.
Kraushaar also upgraded Northern Trust (NTRS) to accumulate/buy from
neutral/buy. State Street (STT) remains rated at a neutral/buy. (TAS)



3:12 (Dow Jones) ABN AMRO telecom equipment analyst Ken Leon cut his
rating on Tellabs (TLAB) to add from buy, citing overly optimistic
revenue expectations for the company's optical networking products
group. In the morning, Tellabs said it expects 2001 revenue of $4.4
billion, about $400 million short of Leon's prior estimate. The company
met Wall Street's 4Q earnings estimates. "Besides the 2001 forecast, we
have growing concerns about the build-up of inventory that has occurred
in the last three quarters," Leon said. (JDB)



3:07 (Dow Jones) Legato Systems (LGTO) surges 12% in heavy volume,
bolstered by renewed speculation that the software maker is a target of
a takeover bid. "There's been a rumor that someone is interested," says
an arbitrage trader. "It's been gaining momentum the last couple of
days. We've seen some options activty that's been pretty strong." IBM
and EMC possible suitors, traders say. (JAW)



3:03 (Dow Jones) No major hurricanes in 2000 helped keep catastrophe
claims down at U.S. property and casualty insurers, according to
Insurance Services Office Inc., which provides insurance statistics and
underwriting information. The industry handled $4.3 billion in
catastrophe claims last year, one of the lowest amounts in the past
decade, ISO said. The low was $2.6 billion in claims in 1997, while the
high was $22.97 billion in claims in 1992. (CUB)



3:00 (Dow Jones) Feb., March and April Fed Funds futures slipping
lower amid fast market trade as participants scurry to adjust to latest
talk on Fed expectations. Feb. Fed Funds last down 0.45 at 94.425. (CMN)



2:55 (Dow Jones) Lehman Brothers analyst Mitchell Speiser expects
Starbucks Corp.'s (SBUX) earnings for the fiscal 1Q to meet his estimate
of 23 cents a share, which he compared with 18 cents in the 1999
quarter. However, same-store sales will declerate against the tough
year-ago comparions and pricing flexibility will lessen going forward,
limiting further price-to-earnings growth, he said. (DDO)



2:35 (Dow Jones) Treasurys steepening losses across the curve on
sell-off triggered by Market News story suggesting Fed may cut just 25
bp late this month, not 50 bp as bond market has been expecting, say
fixed-income strategists. 2-year yield up 6 bp at 4.80%, its price down
4/32 at 100 19/32. 30-year yield up 4 bp at 5.65%, its price down 20/32
at 108 18/32. (JNP)



2:31 (Dow Jones) As options volatility falls, investors seize the
opportunity to buy bullish call options, likely betting that stock gains
will hold or increase through the late-January FOMC meeting. Volatility
had been edging down through the earnings season and now continues to
ease after expiration Friday. Investors, some of whom bought calls
Monday in big-cap stocks like Cisco Systems (CSCO) and General Electric
(GE), continued today with names from Global Crossing (GX) to Qualcomm
(QCOM). (KXT)



2:26 (Dow Jones) SBC Communications Inc.'s (SBC) clearance to provide
long-distance services in Oklahoma and Kansas is also a boon for
Williams Communications Group Inc. (WCG), Merrill Lynch says. Most of
SBC's long-distance traffic from the region will run over Williams'
long-haul network, they said. Merrill rates both stocks at near-term
accumulate, long-term buy. (CBN)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n027e7




 MARKET TALK: LSI Hits 4Q, 1Q Will Be Shy; Does It Matter? 

1,280 words
23 January 2001
21:26
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



4:25 (Dow Jones) LSI hit 4Q views, but 1Q will be well-below views.
Given other tech outlooks recently, though, does it matter? Compaq (CPQ)
expected at 4:30 ET. (TG)



4:18 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg's Jay Yannello increased his 12-month
price target for Dynegy Inc. (DYN) to $63 from $61 to reflect the
company's higher earnings guidance for 2001.  Yannello now expects the
company will earn $1.80 a share this year, an estimate he calls
"conservative." With strong 4Q results from Enron Corp. (ENE) and
Dynegy, Yannello is expecting to see more of the same from El Paso
Energy Corp. (EPG) and Williams Cos. (WMB). (CCC)



4:09 (Dow Jones) CIBC World Markets telecom equipment analyst Jim
Jungjohann reiterated his buy rating on Tellabs (TLAB), citing several
factors, including the expected commercial introduction of a new optical
switching product late this year, a healthy backlog and improving
traction with existing optical switching products. Jungjohann said he is
tweaking his 2001 estimates, following guidance by the company Tuesday,
that will slightly back-end load revenue of $4.3 billion given expected
near-term spending softness by telecommunications companies. (JDB)



4:03 (Dow Jones) Equities post solid gains, with Nasdaq Comp. adding
3%. Techs manage to shrug off TI warning of late Monday, with 5.9% gain
in Intel leading DJIA higher. The stock side of Wall Street also seemed
not to care about increasing talk that rates are going to get cut by
only a quarter-percentage point next week. Good numbers from EMC and
Merrill help. Key profit reports coming from Compaq, Broadcom later
Tuesday. DJIA gains 64 to 10642, Nasdaq adds 82 to 2840, and S&P 500
improves 16 to 1359 (preliminary). (TG)



3:51 (Dow Jones) Traders say they are worried that recent gains in
Nasdaq Composite Index have created too much complacency in the market.
They point to the CBOE Volatility reading, VIX, which has slumped to its
lowest level of three months. The betting is that the equity market tops
out shortly, and may roll back over. (ROB)



3:45 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps gains take the market to solid resistance
levels. Off-floor analyst says if contract can close in the 1370s and
then clear that level, it could burst to the 1412 area. However, he
said, inability to do that could leave March S&Ps consolidating ahead of
Greenspan's speech Thursday and the FOMC meeting next week. (DMC)



3:39 (Dow Jones) Fed Funds futures trader says with a close of 94.425
(down 0.47), Feb. Fed Funds pricing in a 70% chance of a 50 basis point
ease by Jan. 31. Also, the June contract, last down 0.75 at 94.90,
pricing in an 80% chance of a 100 basis point ease by the end of June.
"We're still pricing in eases, just not as aggressively," trader says.
(CMN)



3:34 (Dow Jones) Equity players will get another big dose of key
earnings after the bell Tuesday, led by Compaq (CPQ), which is expected
to post 4Q net of 28c a share. Compaq warned back in December that
estimates at that time were way too high. Among others on tap for later
are Broadcom (BRCM), Siebel (SEBL), Kimberly Clark (KMB) and SCI Systems
(SCI). (TG)



3:25 (Dow Jones) Bank investors may be moving into the wrong banks,
warns analyst Judah Kraushaar of Merrill Lynch. With interest rates
falling, investors have sold trust banks to make room for more
credit-sensitive financials. Tsk, tsk. Investors have become
"excessively negative" on the growth prospects for the trust banks,
which should deliver 14%-15% sustainable earnings growth. The stocks
have been beaten down, and now offer an attractive entry point.
Kraushaar sees the best buys in Bank of New York Co. (BK) and Mellon
Financial Corp. (MEL), which are down nearly 20% off their annual highs.
Kraushaar also upgraded Northern Trust (NTRS) to accumulate/buy from
neutral/buy. State Street (STT) remains rated at a neutral/buy. (TAS)



3:12 (Dow Jones) ABN AMRO telecom equipment analyst Ken Leon cut his
rating on Tellabs (TLAB) to add from buy, citing overly optimistic
revenue expectations for the company's optical networking products
group. In the morning, Tellabs said it expects 2001 revenue of $4.4
billion, about $400 million short of Leon's prior estimate. The company
met Wall Street's 4Q earnings estimates. "Besides the 2001 forecast, we
have growing concerns about the build-up of inventory that has occurred
in the last three quarters," Leon said. (JDB)



3:07 (Dow Jones) Legato Systems (LGTO) surges 12% in heavy volume,
bolstered by renewed speculation that the software maker is a target of
a takeover bid. "There's been a rumor that someone is interested," says
an arbitrage trader. "It's been gaining momentum the last couple of
days. We've seen some options activty that's been pretty strong." IBM
and EMC possible suitors, traders say. (JAW)



3:03 (Dow Jones) No major hurricanes in 2000 helped keep catastrophe
claims down at U.S. property and casualty insurers, according to
Insurance Services Office Inc., which provides insurance statistics and
underwriting information. The industry handled $4.3 billion in
catastrophe claims last year, one of the lowest amounts in the past
decade, ISO said. The low was $2.6 billion in claims in 1997, while the
high was $22.97 billion in claims in 1992. (CUB)



3:00 (Dow Jones) Feb., March and April Fed Funds futures slipping
lower amid fast market trade as participants scurry to adjust to latest
talk on Fed expectations. Feb. Fed Funds last down 0.45 at 94.425. (CMN)



2:55 (Dow Jones) Lehman Brothers analyst Mitchell Speiser expects
Starbucks Corp.'s (SBUX) earnings for the fiscal 1Q to meet his estimate
of 23 cents a share, which he compared with 18 cents in the 1999
quarter. However, same-store sales will declerate against the tough
year-ago comparions and pricing flexibility will lessen going forward,
limiting further price-to-earnings growth, he said. (DDO)



2:35 (Dow Jones) Treasurys steepening losses across the curve on
sell-off triggered by Market News story suggesting Fed may cut just 25
bp late this month, not 50 bp as bond market has been expecting, say
fixed-income strategists. 2-year yield up 6 bp at 4.80%, its price down
4/32 at 100 19/32. 30-year yield up 4 bp at 5.65%, its price down 20/32
at 108 18/32. (JNP)



2:31 (Dow Jones) As options volatility falls, investors seize the
opportunity to buy bullish call options, likely betting that stock gains
will hold or increase through the late-January FOMC meeting. Volatility
had been edging down through the earnings season and now continues to
ease after expiration Friday. Investors, some of whom bought calls
Monday in big-cap stocks like Cisco Systems (CSCO) and General Electric
(GE), continued today with names from Global Crossing (GX) to Qualcomm
(QCOM). (KXT)



2:26 (Dow Jones) SBC Communications Inc.'s (SBC) clearance to provide
long-distance services in Oklahoma and Kansas is also a boon for
Williams Communications Group Inc. (WCG), Merrill Lynch says. Most of
SBC's long-distance traffic from the region will run over Williams'
long-haul network, they said. Merrill rates both stocks at near-term
accumulate, long-term buy. (CBN)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n027bk




 MARKET TALK: Wring An Extra Two Bucks Out Of Dynegy 

1,246 words
23 January 2001
21:19
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



4:18 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg's Jay Yannello increased his 12-month
price target for Dynegy Inc. (DYN) to $63 from $61 to reflect the
company's higher earnings guidance for 2001.  Yannello now expects the
company will earn $1.80 a share this year, an estimate he calls
"conservative." With strong 4Q results from Enron Corp. (ENE) and
Dynegy, Yannello is expecting to see more of the same from El Paso
Energy Corp. (EPG) and Williams Cos. (WMB). (CCC)



4:09 (Dow Jones) CIBC World Markets telecom equipment analyst Jim
Jungjohann reiterated his buy rating on Tellabs (TLAB), citing several
factors, including the expected commercial introduction of a new optical
switching product late this year, a healthy backlog and improving
traction with existing optical switching products. Jungjohann said he is
tweaking his 2001 estimates, following guidance by the company Tuesday,
that will slightly back-end load revenue of $4.3 billion given expected
near-term spending softness by telecommunications companies. (JDB)



4:03 (Dow Jones) Equities post solid gains, with Nasdaq Comp. adding
3%. Techs manage to shrug off TI warning of late Monday, with 5.9% gain
in Intel leading DJIA higher. The stock side of Wall Street also seemed
not to care about increasing talk that rates are going to get cut by
only a quarter-percentage point next week. Good numbers from EMC and
Merrill help. Key profit reports coming from Compaq, Broadcom later
Tuesday. DJIA gains 64 to 10642, Nasdaq adds 82 to 2840, and S&P 500
improves 16 to 1359 (preliminary). (TG)



3:51 (Dow Jones) Traders say they are worried that recent gains in
Nasdaq Composite Index have created too much complacency in the market.
They point to the CBOE Volatility reading, VIX, which has slumped to its
lowest level of three months. The betting is that the equity market tops
out shortly, and may roll back over. (ROB)



3:45 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps gains take the market to solid resistance
levels. Off-floor analyst says if contract can close in the 1370s and
then clear that level, it could burst to the 1412 area. However, he
said, inability to do that could leave March S&Ps consolidating ahead of
Greenspan's speech Thursday and the FOMC meeting next week. (DMC)



3:39 (Dow Jones) Fed Funds futures trader says with a close of 94.425
(down 0.47), Feb. Fed Funds pricing in a 70% chance of a 50 basis point
ease by Jan. 31. Also, the June contract, last down 0.75 at 94.90,
pricing in an 80% chance of a 100 basis point ease by the end of June.
"We're still pricing in eases, just not as aggressively," trader says.
(CMN)



3:34 (Dow Jones) Equity players will get another big dose of key
earnings after the bell Tuesday, led by Compaq (CPQ), which is expected
to post 4Q net of 28c a share. Compaq warned back in December that
estimates at that time were way too high. Among others on tap for later
are Broadcom (BRCM), Siebel (SEBL), Kimberly Clark (KMB) and SCI Systems
(SCI). (TG)



3:25 (Dow Jones) Bank investors may be moving into the wrong banks,
warns analyst Judah Kraushaar of Merrill Lynch. With interest rates
falling, investors have sold trust banks to make room for more
credit-sensitive financials. Tsk, tsk. Investors have become
"excessively negative" on the growth prospects for the trust banks,
which should deliver 14%-15% sustainable earnings growth. The stocks
have been beaten down, and now offer an attractive entry point.
Kraushaar sees the best buys in Bank of New York Co. (BK) and Mellon
Financial Corp. (MEL), which are down nearly 20% off their annual highs.
Kraushaar also upgraded Northern Trust (NTRS) to accumulate/buy from
neutral/buy. State Street (STT) remains rated at a neutral/buy. (TAS)



3:12 (Dow Jones) ABN AMRO telecom equipment analyst Ken Leon cut his
rating on Tellabs (TLAB) to add from buy, citing overly optimistic
revenue expectations for the company's optical networking products
group. In the morning, Tellabs said it expects 2001 revenue of $4.4
billion, about $400 million short of Leon's prior estimate. The company
met Wall Street's 4Q earnings estimates. "Besides the 2001 forecast, we
have growing concerns about the build-up of inventory that has occurred
in the last three quarters," Leon said. (JDB)



3:07 (Dow Jones) Legato Systems (LGTO) surges 12% in heavy volume,
bolstered by renewed speculation that the software maker is a target of
a takeover bid. "There's been a rumor that someone is interested," says
an arbitrage trader. "It's been gaining momentum the last couple of
days. We've seen some options activty that's been pretty strong." IBM
and EMC possible suitors, traders say. (JAW)



3:03 (Dow Jones) No major hurricanes in 2000 helped keep catastrophe
claims down at U.S. property and casualty insurers, according to
Insurance Services Office Inc., which provides insurance statistics and
underwriting information. The industry handled $4.3 billion in
catastrophe claims last year, one of the lowest amounts in the past
decade, ISO said. The low was $2.6 billion in claims in 1997, while the
high was $22.97 billion in claims in 1992. (CUB)



3:00 (Dow Jones) Feb., March and April Fed Funds futures slipping
lower amid fast market trade as participants scurry to adjust to latest
talk on Fed expectations. Feb. Fed Funds last down 0.45 at 94.425. (CMN)



2:55 (Dow Jones) Lehman Brothers analyst Mitchell Speiser expects
Starbucks Corp.'s (SBUX) earnings for the fiscal 1Q to meet his estimate
of 23 cents a share, which he compared with 18 cents in the 1999
quarter. However, same-store sales will declerate against the tough
year-ago comparions and pricing flexibility will lessen going forward,
limiting further price-to-earnings growth, he said. (DDO)



2:35 (Dow Jones) Treasurys steepening losses across the curve on
sell-off triggered by Market News story suggesting Fed may cut just 25
bp late this month, not 50 bp as bond market has been expecting, say
fixed-income strategists. 2-year yield up 6 bp at 4.80%, its price down
4/32 at 100 19/32. 30-year yield up 4 bp at 5.65%, its price down 20/32
at 108 18/32. (JNP)



2:31 (Dow Jones) As options volatility falls, investors seize the
opportunity to buy bullish call options, likely betting that stock gains
will hold or increase through the late-January FOMC meeting. Volatility
had been edging down through the earnings season and now continues to
ease after expiration Friday. Investors, some of whom bought calls
Monday in big-cap stocks like Cisco Systems (CSCO) and General Electric
(GE), continued today with names from Global Crossing (GX) to Qualcomm
(QCOM). (KXT)



2:26 (Dow Jones) SBC Communications Inc.'s (SBC) clearance to provide
long-distance services in Oklahoma and Kansas is also a boon for
Williams Communications Group Inc. (WCG), Merrill Lynch says. Most of
SBC's long-distance traffic from the region will run over Williams'
long-haul network, they said. Merrill rates both stocks at near-term
accumulate, long-term buy. (CBN)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n0278y




 MARKET TALK: CIBC Continues To Like Tellabs 

1,162 words
23 January 2001
21:09
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



4:09 (Dow Jones) CIBC World Markets telecom equipment analyst Jim
Jungjohann reiterated his buy rating on Tellabs (TLAB), citing several
factors, including the expected commercial introduction of a new optical
switching product late this year, a healthy backlog and improving
traction with existing optical switching products. Jungjohann said he is
tweaking his 2001 estimates, following guidance by the company Tuesday,
that will slightly back-end load revenue of $4.3 billion given expected
near-term spending softness by telecommunications companies. (JDB)



4:03 (Dow Jones) Equities post solid gains, with Nasdaq Comp. adding
3%. Techs manage to shrug off TI warning of late Monday, with 5.9% gain
in Intel leading DJIA higher. The stock side of Wall Street also seemed
not to care about increasing talk that rates are going to get cut by
only a quarter-percentage point next week. Good numbers from EMC and
Merrill help. Key profit reports coming from Compaq, Broadcom later
Tuesday. DJIA gains 64 to 10642, Nasdaq adds 82 to 2840, and S&P 500
improves 16 to 1359 (preliminary). (TG)



3:51 (Dow Jones) Traders say they are worried that recent gains in
Nasdaq Composite Index have created too much complacency in the market.
They point to the CBOE Volatility reading, VIX, which has slumped to its
lowest level of three months. The betting is that the equity market tops
out shortly, and may roll back over. (ROB)



3:45 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps gains take the market to solid resistance
levels. Off-floor analyst says if contract can close in the 1370s and
then clear that level, it could burst to the 1412 area. However, he
said, inability to do that could leave March S&Ps consolidating ahead of
Greenspan's speech Thursday and the FOMC meeting next week. (DMC)



3:39 (Dow Jones) Fed Funds futures trader says with a close of 94.425
(down 0.47), Feb. Fed Funds pricing in a 70% chance of a 50 basis point
ease by Jan. 31. Also, the June contract, last down 0.75 at 94.90,
pricing in an 80% chance of a 100 basis point ease by the end of June.
"We're still pricing in eases, just not as aggressively," trader says.
(CMN)



3:34 (Dow Jones) Equity players will get another big dose of key
earnings after the bell Tuesday, led by Compaq (CPQ), which is expected
to post 4Q net of 28c a share. Compaq warned back in December that
estimates at that time were way too high. Among others on tap for later
are Broadcom (BRCM), Siebel (SEBL), Kimberly Clark (KMB) and SCI Systems
(SCI). (TG)



3:25 (Dow Jones) Bank investors may be moving into the wrong banks,
warns analyst Judah Kraushaar of Merrill Lynch. With interest rates
falling, investors have sold trust banks to make room for more
credit-sensitive financials. Tsk, tsk. Investors have become
"excessively negative" on the growth prospects for the trust banks,
which should deliver 14%-15% sustainable earnings growth. The stocks
have been beaten down, and now offer an attractive entry point.
Kraushaar sees the best buys in Bank of New York Co. (BK) and Mellon
Financial Corp. (MEL), which are down nearly 20% off their annual highs.
Kraushaar also upgraded Northern Trust (NTRS) to accumulate/buy from
neutral/buy. State Street (STT) remains rated at a neutral/buy. (TAS)



3:12 (Dow Jones) ABN AMRO telecom equipment analyst Ken Leon cut his
rating on Tellabs (TLAB) to add from buy, citing overly optimistic
revenue expectations for the company's optical networking products
group. In the morning, Tellabs said it expects 2001 revenue of $4.4
billion, about $400 million short of Leon's prior estimate. The company
met Wall Street's 4Q earnings estimates. "Besides the 2001 forecast, we
have growing concerns about the build-up of inventory that has occurred
in the last three quarters," Leon said. (JDB)



3:07 (Dow Jones) Legato Systems (LGTO) surges 12% in heavy volume,
bolstered by renewed speculation that the software maker is a target of
a takeover bid. "There's been a rumor that someone is interested," says
an arbitrage trader. "It's been gaining momentum the last couple of
days. We've seen some options activty that's been pretty strong." IBM
and EMC possible suitors, traders say. (JAW)



3:03 (Dow Jones) No major hurricanes in 2000 helped keep catastrophe
claims down at U.S. property and casualty insurers, according to
Insurance Services Office Inc., which provides insurance statistics and
underwriting information. The industry handled $4.3 billion in
catastrophe claims last year, one of the lowest amounts in the past
decade, ISO said. The low was $2.6 billion in claims in 1997, while the
high was $22.97 billion in claims in 1992. (CUB)



3:00 (Dow Jones) Feb., March and April Fed Funds futures slipping
lower amid fast market trade as participants scurry to adjust to latest
talk on Fed expectations. Feb. Fed Funds last down 0.45 at 94.425. (CMN)



2:55 (Dow Jones) Lehman Brothers analyst Mitchell Speiser expects
Starbucks Corp.'s (SBUX) earnings for the fiscal 1Q to meet his estimate
of 23 cents a share, which he compared with 18 cents in the 1999
quarter. However, same-store sales will declerate against the tough
year-ago comparions and pricing flexibility will lessen going forward,
limiting further price-to-earnings growth, he said. (DDO)



2:35 (Dow Jones) Treasurys steepening losses across the curve on
sell-off triggered by Market News story suggesting Fed may cut just 25
bp late this month, not 50 bp as bond market has been expecting, say
fixed-income strategists. 2-year yield up 6 bp at 4.80%, its price down
4/32 at 100 19/32. 30-year yield up 4 bp at 5.65%, its price down 20/32
at 108 18/32. (JNP)



2:31 (Dow Jones) As options volatility falls, investors seize the
opportunity to buy bullish call options, likely betting that stock gains
will hold or increase through the late-January FOMC meeting. Volatility
had been edging down through the earnings season and now continues to
ease after expiration Friday. Investors, some of whom bought calls
Monday in big-cap stocks like Cisco Systems (CSCO) and General Electric
(GE), continued today with names from Global Crossing (GX) to Qualcomm
(QCOM). (KXT)



2:26 (Dow Jones) SBC Communications Inc.'s (SBC) clearance to provide
long-distance services in Oklahoma and Kansas is also a boon for
Williams Communications Group Inc. (WCG), Merrill Lynch says. Most of
SBC's long-distance traffic from the region will run over Williams'
long-haul network, they said. Merrill rates both stocks at near-term
accumulate, long-term buy. (CBN)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n0276b




 MARKET TALK: S&P Sees Stability In Telecom Ratings By 2002 

794 words
23 January 2001
14:27
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:26 (Dow Jones) S&P sees stability in telecom ratings by early 2002,
says Chris Legge, director for corporate ratings at the agency. "2000
was a very transitional year, unprecedented. We don't see that kind of
year in 2001." He adds: "We'd like to see stability very soon," but
early 2002 seems more likely. (RGB)



9:19 (Dow Jones) The Treasury market is slithering through a tight
range this morning, with little to hang its hat on, data wise. The
10-year is up 5/32 to yield 5.21%. Traders are on guard for corporate
supply and stock gains, the two factors most likely to send the market
lower this morning. (MSD)



9:11 (Dow Jones) Bank of Canada cited "abruptly" slowing U.S. economy
as prime motivator of its 25 bp cut in its Bank Rate to 5.75%. Though a
surprise to some, BOC cut was well factored into market psychology.
Little immediate impact on USD/CAD, which continues choppy trade in
C$1.5070 area, looking to return to Monday highs around C$1.5120. (PE)



9:05 (Dow Jones) Merck & Co. (MRK) posted earnings of 75 cents a
share, in line with consensus estimates on sales of $11.47 billion. The
company's five main growth drivers - Zocor, Singulair, Fosamax, Vioxx,
and Cozaar/Hyzaar - continued to fuel sales, accounting for 61% in the
fourth quarter. Analysts quickly noted they were pleased with the
figures. The conference call is set to begin at 9:00 a.m. ET. (BMM)



9:01 (Dow Jones) The BTM/UBSW weekly chain store sales index dropped
0.7% from the week before, on a seasonally-adjusted comparable store
basis, as winter storms in the midwest and northeast impaired Saturday
shopping. (FL)



9:00 (Dow Jones) Merrill says it sees nothing in Texas Instruments'
(TXN) numbers that isn't already built into stock price. That said, the
firm cuts price target to $75 from $105, "simply to reflect more
realistic expectations." Cuts FY01 EPS view to $1.11 from $1.40, and
initiates FY02 view of $1.45. Maintains buy rating. (TG)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n0265k


B; BUSINESS; YOUR MONEY; WALL STREET REPORT
Stock market dips as investors take profits

669 words
23 January 2001
The Washington Times
WATI
2
B8
English
Copyright 2001, News World Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK - Profit-taking sent stocks modestly lower yesterday as Wall Street rested after three weeks of healthy gains in the high-tech sector. An earnings warning from Dell Computer had little effect on the markets.

"We've had a pretty fabulous run since the Fed initially lowered rates on Jan. 2. Stock prices have done well," said Steven Goldman, market strategist at Weeden & Co. "There was some bad news today, but investors appear to be looking ahead, instead of focusing on the rearview mirror and bad earnings news for this last quarter."

The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 9.35 at 10,578.24.

The Nasdaq Composite Index slipped 12.47 to 2,757.91, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 0.35 to 1,342.90.

Dell, which fell 13 cents to $25.50, became the latest high-profile technology company to lower its earnings forecast because of the slowing economy and slumping consumer confidence.

So far this year, the market has had little reaction to similar warnings, reflecting many investors' belief that weak earnings already were priced into stocks. Yesterday's trading continued that trend. The Federal Reserve Board's decision to lower interest rates earlier this month - and expectations that it will lower rates again next week - have made investors more confident even as companies release disappointing earnings outlooks.

"Six months ago, the same news would have sent Dell down 25 to 30 percent, but its stock is already down," said John Forelli, portfolio manager at Independence Investment Associates. "I think investors are starting to feel like the bad news is factored into stocks."

Still, yesterday's trading suggested that Wall Street remained cautious.

American Express fell $3.63 to $45 after releasing earnings that met expectations but reducing its yearly forecast because of weak market conditions.

Investors, who had bid tech prices higher in the past few sessions, gravitated toward safer havens such as energy and health care stocks after shunning them last week. Duke Energy rose $1.19 to $74, while Pfizer was up 75 cents at $42.13.

Tech stocks were mixed, with losses coming primarily from profit-taking. Dow component IBM fell $2.69 to $108.56, ending a winning streak that began last week.

But investors didn't abandon the sector. Cisco Systems was up $1.06 at $41.44.

"This is part of the rotation that we've been seeing. Financial, utility and health care stocks are rebounding somewhat today after spending the first part of the year down," said Mr. Forelli, the Independence Investment manager. "It's catch-up time now for some of these groups, so we're seeing tech a little down as that happens."

Manufacturing and retail stocks gained as well, with 3M rising $2.13 to $108.88 and Sears gaining $2.92, or more than 8 percent, to reach $36.60.

Amgen shot up nearly 13 percent, gaining $7.63 to $67.63, on a court ruling that preserves the biotech company's monopoly on its top-selling drug, Epogen.

Also yesterday, a key gauge of U.S. economic activity plunged 0.6 percent in December, signaling continued weakness in the U.S. economy. The news from the New York-based Conference Board's Index of Leading Economic Indicators was taken as yet another sign that the economy is slowing, giving the Fed more reason to lower rates.

Advancing issues outnumbered decliners about 7 to 5 on the New York Stock Exchange. Consolidated volume came to 1.40 billion shares, compared with 1.68 billion Friday.

The Russell 2000 index was up 2.06 at 490.15.

Overseas, stocks were higher. Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.3 percent, as did Germany's DAX index, up nearly 0.4 percent. Britain's FT-SE 100 also gained nearly 0.4 percent, and France's CAC-40 was up 0.6 percent.

Document WATI000020140719dx1n00nd3




BUSINESS
STOCKS SLIP ON PROFIT-TAKING

LISA SINGHANIA   Associated Press   
435 words
23 January 2001
Times Union
TMNN
THREE STAR
E4
English
Copyright 2001. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK -- Profit-taking sent stocks modestly lower Monday as Wall Street rested after three weeks of healthy gains in the high-tech sector. An earnings warning from Dell Computer had little effect on the markets.

``We've had a pretty fabulous run since the Fed initially lowered rates on Jan. 2. Stock prices have done well,'' said Steven Goldman, market strategist at Weeden & Co. ``There was some bad news today, but investors appear to be looking ahead, instead of focusing on the rearview mirror and bad earnings news for this last quarter.''

The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 9.35 at 10,578.24, according to preliminary calculations.

The Nasdaq composite index slipped 12.47 to 2,757.91, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 0.35 to 1,342.90.

Dell, which fell 13 cents to $25.50, became the latest high-profile technology company to lower its earnings forecast because of the slowing economy and slumping consumer confidence.

So far this year, the market has had little reaction to similar warnings, reflecting many investors' belief that weak earnings were already priced into stocks, and Monday's trading continued that trend. The Federal Reserve's decision to lower interest rates earlier this month -- and expectations it will lower rates again next week -- have made investors more confident even as companies release disappointing earnings outlooks.

``Six months ago, the same news would have sent Dell down 25 to 30 percent, but its stock is already down,'' said John Forelli, portfolio manager at Independence Investment Associates. ``I think investors are starting to feel like the bad news is factored into stocks.''

Still, Monday's trading suggested Wall Street remained cautious.

American Express fell $3.63 to $45 after releasing earnings that met expectations but reducing its yearly forecast because of weak market conditions.

Investors, who had bid tech prices higher in the past few sessions, gravitated toward safer havens such as energy and health care stocks after shunning them last week. Duke Energy rose $1.19 to $74, while Pfizer was up 75 cents at $42.13.

Tech stocks were mixed, with losses primarily coming from profit-taking. Dow component IBM fell $2.69 to $108.56, ending a winning streak that began last week. But investors didn't abandon the sector. Cisco Systems was up $1.06 at $41.44.

Manufacturing and retail stocks gained as well, with 3M rising $2.13 to $108.88 and Sears gaining $2.92, or more than 8 percent, to reach $36.60.

Document TMNN000020120817dx1n0025d




BUSINESS
 Profit -taking pushes market slightly lower Dell earnings  warning  creates little change

Associated Press   
581 words
23 January 2001
Houston Chronicle
HOU
3 STAR
5
English
Copyright 2001. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK - Profit-taking sent stocks modestly lower Monday as Wall Street rested after three weeks of healthy gains in the high-tech sector. An earnings warning from Dell Computer had little effect on the markets.

"We've had a pretty fabulous run since the Fed initially lowered rates on Jan. 2. Stock prices have done well," said Steven Goldman, market strategist at Weeden & Co. "There was some bad news today, but investors appear to be looking ahead, instead of focusing on the rear-view mirror and bad earnings news for this last quarter."

The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 9.35 at 10,578.24.

The Nasdaq composite index slipped 12.47 to 2,757.91, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 0.36 to 1,342.90.

Dell, which fell 13 cents to $25.50, became the latest high-profile technology company to lower its earnings forecast because of the slowing economy and slumping consumer confidence.

So far this year, the market has had little reaction to similar warnings, reflecting many investors' belief that weak earnings already were priced into stocks.

The Federal Reserve's decision to lower interest rates earlier this month - and expectations that it will lower rates again next week - have made investors more confident even as companies release disappointing earnings outlooks.

"Six months ago, the same news would have sent Dell down 25 to 30 percent, but its stock is already down," said John Forelli, portfolio manager at Independence Investment Associates.

Still, Monday's trading suggested that Wall Street remained cautious.

Investors, who had bid tech prices higher in the past few sessions, gravitated toward safer havens such as energy and health care stocks after shunning them last week. Duke Energy rose $1.19 to $74, while Pfizer was up 75 cents at $42.13.

Tech stocks were mixed, with losses primarily coming from profit-taking. Dow component IBM fell $2.69 to $108.56, ending a winning streak that began last week.

But investors didn't abandon the sector. Cisco Systems was up $1.06 at $41.44.

And Amgen shot up nearly 13 percent, gaining $7.63 to $67.63, on a court ruling that preserves the biotech company's monopoly on its top-selling drug, Epogen.

Advancing issues outnumbered decliners about 7 to 5 on the New York Stock Exchange. Consolidated volume came to 1.40 billion shares, compared with 1.68 billion Friday.

The Russell 2000 index was up 2.06 at 490.15.

The price of a 30-year treasury bond fell 28/32 point, or $8.75 per $1,000 in face value. The yield rose to 5.60 percent from 5.55 percent.

In Mexico, the bolsa up .057 percent, or 3.58, to 6,271.07. Overseas, stocks were higher. Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.3 percent, as did Germany's DAX index, up nearly 0.4 percent. Britain's FT-SE 100 also gained nearly 0.4 percent, and France's CAC-40 was up 0.6 percent.

In New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 116.39 yen late Monday, down from 117.42 yen Friday. It was quoted at 9.803 pesos, up from 9.790 pesos. The peso fell to 10.2010 cents from 10.2145 cents. The euro rose to 93.84 cents from 93.41 cents.

Document HOU0000020120818dx1n0222e




BUSINESS
Dell says its earnings will not meet forecasts

TOM FOWLER; Staff, New York Times   
622 words
23 January 2001
Houston Chronicle
HOU
3 STAR
1
English
Copyright 2001. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Citing a weakening economy, Dell Computer Corp. warned Monday that its fourth-quarter profits would fall short of Wall Street's expectations.

For the quarter ending Jan. 26, the Round Rock-based company now expects to report earnings of 18 to 19 cents a share, short of the 26 cents its executives had predicted at the quarter's start. Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial had been expecting earnings of 25 cents a share, compared with 15 cents a share in the same quarter last year.

Despite the projected shortfall, shares of Dell recovered from early selling Monday to close down 13 cents, at $25.50, on the New York Stock Exchange.

After a third quarter marred by an early profit warning that shook the Nasdaq stock market, Dell aggressively cut prices in the fiscal year's waning months. The company said it attained a 40 percent increase in unit shipments in the fourth quarter over a year earlier, and several analysts endorsed Dell's assertions that it had gained in market share.

At the third quarter's end, the company controlled 11.6 percent of the worldwide market, the second-largest share after Houston-based Compaq Computer Corp., according to IDC, a technology research company in San Jose, Calif.

But the cost of Dell's market share growth to corporate earnings came in the form of "sharply compressed gross margins," according to Eric Rothdeutsch, a computer industry analyst for Robertson Stephens.

Dell projected fourth-quarter revenues of $8.5 billion to $8.6 billion, a 25 percent to 27 percent increase over the same quarter of 1999, although it expects profit-growth gains of only 16 percent to 20 percent.

"The performance clearly distinguishes us from other computer-systems companies, given current realities of the global economy and computer-systems market," said Michael Dell, the company's chairman and chief executive officer.

Dell said the company will continue cutting prices "regardless of the economic environment."

Dell is expected to report its quarterly earnings on Feb. 15, and analysts plan to monitor the company's conference call to assess executives' confidence about the computer market.

Compaq, which also has warned of an earnings shortfall, is expected to report its financial results today.

In December, Compaq warned it would report revenues of between $11.2 billion and $11.4 billion for the quarter ending Dec. 31, or 8 percent to 10 percent below original expectations.

Earnings from operations, excluding some hefty one-time charges due to the sliding value of Compaq's 15 percent stake in Internet holding company CMGI, are expected to be between 28 cents and 30 cents per diluted share, or about 8 cents below previous expectations.

Compaq saw its stock hit a 52-week low of $14.30 following the December warning, but since then the stock has climbed, closing at $19.82 on Monday.

Gateway Inc. and Apple Computerhave issued warnings for the quarter, as have Intel Corp., the largest maker of semiconductors, and Microsoft Corp., the largest software company, which for years had seemed immune to such troubles.

Dell's announcement is "just another indication of the weakness in consumer and small-business demand," said David Bailey, an analyst for Gerard Klauer Mattison & Co. For the computer hardware sector, "we don't believe this is going to be the last piece of bad news."

Dell's warning weighed on the stocks of other computer makers. Gateway fell $2.24 to close at $21.45 and Hewlett-Packard dropped $1.25, to $34.50. Apple slipped just 25 cents, to $19.25.

Chronicle staff writer Tom Fowler contributed to this report.

Document HOU0000020120818dx1n0221l




 MARKET TALK: Abercrombie Gets Street's Vote Of Confidence 

1,121 words
23 January 2001
14:55
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:55 (Dow Jones) Hemingway, who used to buy his clothes there, rolls
over in his grave every time a new Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF) catalog
comes out, but the kids seem to like ANF's modern incarnation as a
T-shirt and baggy pants retailer. Two nods from Street this a.m.:
Merrill's intermediate ranking goes to "buy" from "accumulate," and
Wells Fargo Van Kasper starts it at "strong buy." Solid spring expected
for the brand, with Merrill citing appeal of "preppy styling." No
explanation for how torn shorts is preppy, but the writer is showing his
age. ANF up 6%. (GC)



9:51 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps test support as the market touches the
overnight low of 1353. Floor technical analyst puts support at 1349.90
and 1345.50, Monday's low. Resistance is seen at 1361. If the market can
move above there, it could take out Monday's high of 1364.20. (DMC)



9:47 (Dow Jones) Lehman sticking to guns that Internet infrastructure
services stocks are close to bottom, and that investors have priced in
most if not all of downside in sector. Sees sustainable 3Q rally in
group, although that could conceivably begin sooner. Says Akamai (AKAM),
Digex (DIGX), and Exodus (EXDS) are three most attractive bets in
industry when it rebounds from current funk. (TG)



9:33 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq start soft, as losses in
overnight trade spill over to day session. Focus for markets is on a
flurry of earnings reports and technical outlooks. Floor traders look
for quiet action as nothing  in the earnings releases is too big of a
surprise. (DMC)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Nearby Nymex crude seen opening 15-20 cents a barrel
lower in technical pullback ahead of API inventory report late Tuesday.
March crude, down 22c to $29.58 in overnight ACCESS trade, has support
at $29.40/bbl, while resistance is pegged at $30.57/bbl. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) S&P sees stability in telecom ratings by early 2002,
says Chris Legge, director for corporate ratings at the agency. "2000
was a very transitional year, unprecedented. We don't see that kind of
year in 2001." He adds: "We'd like to see stability very soon," but
early 2002 seems more likely. (RGB)



9:19 (Dow Jones) The Treasury market is slithering through a tight
range this morning, with little to hang its hat on, data wise. The
10-year is up 5/32 to yield 5.21%. Traders are on guard for corporate
supply and stock gains, the two factors most likely to send the market
lower this morning. (MSD)



9:11 (Dow Jones) Bank of Canada cited "abruptly" slowing U.S. economy
as prime motivator of its 25 bp cut in its Bank Rate to 5.75%. Though a
surprise to some, BOC cut was well factored into market psychology.
Little immediate impact on USD/CAD, which continues choppy trade in
C$1.5070 area, looking to return to Monday highs around C$1.5120. (PE)



9:05 (Dow Jones) Merck & Co. (MRK) posted earnings of 75 cents a
share, in line with consensus estimates on sales of $11.47 billion. The
company's five main growth drivers - Zocor, Singulair, Fosamax, Vioxx,
and Cozaar/Hyzaar - continued to fuel sales, accounting for 61% in the
fourth quarter. Analysts quickly noted they were pleased with the
figures. The conference call is set to begin at 9:00 a.m. ET. (BMM)



9:01 (Dow Jones) The BTM/UBSW weekly chain store sales index dropped
0.7% from the week before, on a seasonally-adjusted comparable store
basis, as winter storms in the midwest and northeast impaired Saturday
shopping. (FL)



9:00 (Dow Jones) Merrill says it sees nothing in Texas Instruments'
(TXN) numbers that isn't already built into stock price. That said, the
firm cuts price target to $75 from $105, "simply to reflect more
realistic expectations." Cuts FY01 EPS view to $1.11 from $1.40, and
initiates FY02 view of $1.45. Maintains buy rating. (TG)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n02674




 Business 
 Stock markets slip amid profit-taking 

 Lisa Singhania 
ASSOCIATED PRESS
655 words
23 January 2001
San Antonio Express-News
SAEN
Metro
03E
English
 (c) Copyright 2001 San Antonio Express-News. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK - Profit-taking sent stocks modestly lower Monday as Wall Street rested after three weeks of healthy gains in the high-tech sector. An earnings warning from Dell Computer had little effect on the markets. 

 "We've had a pretty fabulous run since the Fed initially lowered rates on Jan. 2. Stock prices have done well," said Steven Goldman, market strategist at Weeden & Co. "There was some bad news today, but investors appear to be looking ahead, instead of focusing on the rear-view mirror and bad earnings news for this last quarter." 

 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 9.35 at 10,578.24, according to preliminary calculations. 

 The Nasdaq composite index slipped 12.47 to 2,757.91, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 0.35 to 1,342.90. 

 Also Monday, a key gauge of U.S. economic activity reported a 0.6 percent plunge in December, signaling continued weakness in the U.S. economy. 

 The news from the New York-based Conference Board's Index of Leading Economic Indicators was taken as yet another sign that the economy is slowing, giving the Fed more reason to lower rates. 

 Dell, which fell 13 cents to $25.50, became the latest high-profile technology company to lower its earnings forecast because of the slowing economy and slumping consumer confidence. 

 So far this year, the market has had little reaction to similar warnings, reflecting many investors' belief that weak earnings were already priced into stocks, and Monday's trading continued that trend. 

 The Federal Reserve's decision to lower interest rates earlier this month - and expectations that it will lower rates again next week -have made investors more confident even as companies release disappointing earnings outlooks. 

 "Six months ago, the same news would have sent Dell down 25 to 30 percent, but its stock is already down," said John Forelli, portfolio manager at Independence Investment Associates. "I think investors are starting to feel like the bad news is factored into stocks." 

 Still, Monday's trading suggested that Wall Street remained cautious. 

 American Express fell $3.63 to $45 after releasing earnings that met expectations but reducing its yearly forecast because of weak market conditions. 

 Investors, who had bid tech prices higher in the past few sessions, gravitated toward safer havens such as energy and health care stocks after shunning them last week. Duke Energy rose $1.19 to $74, while Pfizer was up 75 cents at $42.13. 

 Tech stocks were mixed, with losses primarily coming from profit-taking. Dow component IBM fell $2.69 to $108.56, ending a winning streak that began last week. 

 But investors didn't abandon the sector. Cisco Systems was up $1.06 at $41.44. 

 "This is part of the rotation that we've been seeing. Financial, utility and health care stocks are rebounding somewhat today after spending the first part of the year down," Forelli, the Independence Investment manager, said. "It's catch-up time now for some of these groups, so we're seeing tech a little down as that happens." 

 Manufacturing and retail stocks gained value as well, with 3M rising $2.13 to $108.88 and Sears gaining $2.92, or more than 8 percent, to reach $36.60. 

 And Amgen shot up nearly 13 percent, gaining $7.63 to $67.63, on a court ruling that preserves the biotech company's monopoly on its top-selling drug, Epogen. 

 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners about 7 to 5 on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume came to 1.13 billion shares, compared with nearly 1.40 billion at the same point Friday. 

 The Russell 2000 index was up 2.06 at 490.15. 

 Overseas, stocks were higher. Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.3 percent, as did Germany's DAX index, up nearly 0.4 percent. 

Document saen000020010713dx1n001gz




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Markets Dell's  Profit Warning  Weighs Down Nasdaq 

From Times Wire Services
653 words
23 January 2001
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Stocks ended mixed Monday after Dell Computer warned its profit will be hit by a global economic slowdown, kicking off a heavy week for corporate earnings reports on a dour note. 

 Strength in shares of retailers, insurance companies and biotechnology companies helped cushion the blow. But an element of caution hung over Wall Street. 

 "This is the blockbuster week where the vast majority of earnings will come out, so people are pausing and are willing to take some profits" from the recent rally, said Joseph Barthel, chief investment strategist at Fahnestock & Co. 

 This is the busiest week for fourth-quarter earnings, with more than 1,100 companies expected to report. 

 The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index ended down 12.47 points, or 0.5%, at 2,757.91 on Monday. It was weighed down by weakness in computer and software companies after Dell, the No. 2 personal computer firm, said earnings in its current quarter will be 18 to 19 cents a share, down from a previous estimate of 26 cents. Dell's quarter ends Feb. 2. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average finished down 9.35 points, or 0.1%, at 10,578.24, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 inched up slightly. 

 The Dow was pushed down by financial component American Express, which fell $3.63 to $45 after it warned that profit growth this year would be at the low end of expectations due to weak financial markets and a slowing economy. 

 Dell, whose shares fell to a session low of $23.63, finished off just 13 cents at $25.50. But it did nudge rivals lower on worries the softening global economy also would pressure their profits. 

 IBM lost $2.69 to $108.56 and Hewlett-Packard skidded $1.25 to $34.50. Compaq Computer fell 68 cents to $19.82, Gateway declined $2.24 to $21.45 and Apple Computer fell 25 cents to $19.25. 

 "There's a little bit of caution, and it's warranted," said Larry Rice, chief investment officer at Josephthal Lyon & Ross. 

 Texas Instruments fell $1.75 to $48.56 in regular trading, then dropped to $46.50 in after hours trading, after the company said it will miss first-quarter earnings estimates. 

 Despite the pall cast by Dell, the market has largely withstood bad news, as it did after other bellwethers issued warnings recently. Although the Dow and Nasdaq indexes lost ground, winners outnumbered losers by narrow margins on Nasdaq and the New York Stock Exchange in moderate trading. 

 "We are beyond the stage where such announcements are going to shake [the market] to its feet like they did a few months ago," said Donald Selkin, chief market strategist at Joseph Gunnar & Co. 

 Among Nasdaq stalwarts, Web-gear giant Cisco Systems rose $1.06 to $41.44 while Microsoft lost 88 cents to $60.13. 

 Home Depot, up $2.75 at $43.75, and Wal-Mart Stores, up $1.75 at $52.56, provided support to the Dow after Goldman, Sachs & Co. advised clients to buy the stocks on weakness. 

 Goldman also favored other retailers, including Gap, up $3.25 to $29.25, and Federated Department Stores, up $2.50 to $40.50. The S&P retail index rose 4.3%. 

 Besides earnings reports, investors also are waiting for Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan to address the U.S. Senate Budget Committee on Thursday to see if he will confirm growing expectations for another half-point interest rate cut at next week's Fed meeting, to perk up the flagging U.S. economy. 

 The Fed cut its key short-term rate a half point on Jan. 3. 

 * 

 Reuters and Bloomberg News were used in compiling this report. 

 * 

 Market Roundup: C13, C14 

 GRAPHIC: Daily Diary: Monday, Jan. 22, 2001, Los Angeles Times; 

Document latm000020010712dx1n003im


 Chicago Tribune Market Report Column  

 Bill Barnhart  
707 words
23 January 2001
Knight Ridder Tribune Business News - KRTBN
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2001 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)  

 Stocks ended narrowly mixed in moderate trading Monday.  

 Technology stocks slipped after Dell Computer warned of disappointing fourth-quarter results. Retailing stocks rallied on an upbeat outlook for the industry from Goldman Sachs.  

 Goldman raised its investment ratings on Sears, Gap, Target and Federated Department Stores, citing prospects for tax cuts and a recovery in the U.S. economy during the second half of the year.  

 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 9.35 points, to 10,578.24, on New York Stock Exchange volume of 1.13 billion shares.  

 Winning stocks outnumbered losers by a 3-2 margin among NYSE stocks. The Standard & Poor's 500 edged up 0.36, to 1342.90.  

 Among major retailers, Sears added $2.92, or nearly 9 percent, to $36.60; Wal-Mart Stores added $1.75, to $52.56; Gap rose $3.25, to $29.25, and Target gained $1.81, to $34.56.  

 The Nasdaq composite index lost 12.47, to 2757.91, on Nasdaq volume of 2.03 billion shares. Nasdaq winners held a slight edge over losers.  

 Dell Computer closed down just 12 cents, to $25.50, after its profitwarning. The stock was the most-active issue in the Nasdaq market.  

 Dell, issuing its fifth profit warning in 12 months, said the current economic slowdown "has been greater than anyone expected."  

 Nonetheless, Dell Chief Executive Michael Dell said, "We are seeing nice momentum in Europe" and "Asia continues to be strong."  

 Bear Stearns upgraded Dell to "attractive."  

 After the close of regular trading, shares of semiconductor maker Texas Instruments fell. The company's fourth-quarter earnings, issued late Monday, came in below the consensus Wall Street estimate.  

 Similarly, Vitesse Semiconductor traded lower after-hours, despite a quarterly report that slightly beat the consensus earnings forecast.  

 The Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks rose 2.06, to 490.15.  

 Among stocks in the news, biotechnology leader Amgen gained nearly 13 percent, to $67.62. A judge sided with the company in a patent dispute regarding its drug, called Epogen, for fighting anemia.  

 The American Stock Exchange index of biotech stocks gained 4.6 percent.  

 In the Treasury securities market, long-term bonds fell but short-dated notes rallied. Traders anticipate another cut in short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve, whose monetary policy committee meets Jan. 30-31.  

 Attention also turned to a Capitol Hill debate over cutting income taxes. The Bush administration submitted a proposal for a 10-year, $1.3-trillion tax cut, centered on cutting income tax rates.  

 Talk has also begun on both sides of the aisle about a cut in the capital gains tax rates. Sponsors of the Bush tax cut plan, Republican Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas and Democrat Zell Miller of Georgia, said the size of the tax cut may increase. The bill introduced Monday does not address capital gains.  

 Legislators will be listening for Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan to comment on tax cuts when he addresses the Senate Budget Committee on Thursday.  

 TREASURY AUCTION: Interest rates declined at Monday's auction of 3-and 6-month Treasury bills.  

 The discount rate for three-month bills was 5.09 percent, down from 5.22 percent last week. The rate of 6-month bills was 4.92 percent, down from 5.05 percent last week.  

 The coupon equivalent rates at Monday's auction were 5.23 percent for 3-month bills and 5.11percent for 6-month bills.  

 LOCAL NEWS: Standard & Poor's cut its credit rating for Schaumburg-based Motorola. "The company's profitability and cash flow will remain pressured by weakness in its key wireless handset and semiconductor markets over the intermediate term," S&P credit analysts concluded. "Restructuring chares remain likely as the company continues to realign its cost base." Shares fell $1.19, or 4.8 percent, to $23.50.  

 Shares of Chicago-based Northern Trust rose $4.62, or 7.2 percent, to $69.19, after Merrill Lynch gave the stock an "accumulate" rating. Merrill Lynch said its upgrade reflected a recent slump in the stock. "We see no sustained slowing in [earnings per share] momentum," the brokerage firm said.  

Document krtbn00020010711dx1n00avv




 Economics 
 Stocks fall afer Dell's  profit warning 

 News agencies 
1,239 words
23 January 2001
The Jerusalem Post
JPST
Daily
14
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 TEL AVIV 

 Stocks fell yesterday, led by Bank Hapoalim Ltd., on expectations the Bank of Israel will lower interest rates next week by less than the 50 basis point cut announced by the US Federal Reserve earlier this month, traders said. 

 The Maof index of the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange's 25 largest companies dropped 2.1 percent to 468.13. Twenty-two stocks fell and two rose. 

 Bank of Israel Governor David Klein is expected to cut the interest rate charged by the central bank by 30 basis points next Monday, according to the average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. 

 Bank Hapoalim Ltd. dropped 2.6% to NIS 64.40. It will face tougher foreign competition for its lending business unless the Bank of Israel matches the Fed's July 3 rate cut, traders said. Bank Leumi declined 1.8% to 9.05 and United Mizrahi Bank Ltd., slid 1.6% to 13.22. 

 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. fell 1.4% to 223.90 after it said it's in talks to buy control of its joint venture with Aventis SA that sells the multiple sclerosis treatment Copaxone. 

 Tower Semiconductor Ltd. rose 3.2% to 64.80. The maker of custom- designed computer chips gained for a second day after announcing that it had received a $550 million credit line to build a new factory. 

 WALL STREET 

 Stocks fell yesterday after computer maker Dell Computer Corp. warned its profits will be hit by a global economic slowdown, kicking off a heavy week for corporate earnings on a dour note. 

 Strength in the stocks of retailers and biotechnology companies helped cushion the broader market's slide. But an element of caution hung over Wall Street. 

 "This is the blockbuster week where the vast majority of earnings will come out so people are pausing and are willing to take some profits" from the recent rally, said Joseph Barthel, chief investment strategist at Fahnestock & Co. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index ended down 12.47 points, or 0.45 percent, at 2,757.91. It was weighed down by weakness in computer and software companies after Dell, the No. 2 personal computer firm, blamed a slower economy and sluggish computer demand for the poor earnings outlook. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average finished down 9.35 points, or 0.09%, at 10,578.24 while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index rose 0.35 of a point, or 0.03%, to 1,342.90. 

 EUROPE 

 UK stocks fell, led by British Telecommunications Plc amid concern about its assets after France Telecom SA said it will sell shares in Orange SA for less than half the original estimated value. 

 Marconi Plc led declines among information technology hardware companies as investors took advantage of recent gains. 

 "After the exuberance of the last couple of weeks, people are pausing for thought," said Keith Woolcock, head of technology research at Nomura International Plc in London. "We've had a bounce but the fundamental picture is still cloudy." 

 The benchmark FT-SE 100 Index slipped 42.5 points, or 0.7%, to 6,166.3. Seven shares advanced for every eight that declined in the FT-SE All-Share Index, which lost 18.67 points, or 0.6%, to 2973.39. The FT-SE Information Technology Hardware Index, the biggest decliner of the FT- SE groups, fell 4.7% to 5472.1. It's still up 7.9% this year. 

 British Telecom, the UK's largest traditional phone company, shed 20.5p, or 2.9%, to 683.5. Investors sold British Telecom amid concern that its plan to pay down debt through the sale of shares in BT Wireless, its mobile telephony unit, looks less viable. British Telecom aims to slash debt by 10 billion this year. 

 ASIA 

 The Philippines' key stock index posted its biggest gain ever after Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo took over as the nation's president, restoring investor confidence in one of last year's worst performing markets. 

 The Philippine Stock Exchange Composite Index jumped 255.13, or 18%, to 1708.06 after tumbling 30% last year. Ayala Land Inc. and other interest-rate sensitive developers and banks led gains. 

 "There's a lot of pent up demand for stocks," said Vincent Lazatin, of the GSIS Mutual Fund. "Anytime you have an event as historic and significant as what happened this weekend, you are going to see an overshoot." 

 In other markets, Japan's Nikkei 225 stock average gained 0.3%, paced by Takeda Chemical Industries Ltd. on a report that Japan's biggest drugmaker plans to make more of its drugs overseas to remain competitive globally. Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index added 1%, led by China Mobile (HK) Ltd. after Microsoft Corp.'s earnings report helped lift the Nasdaq Composite Index for a third day. In Singapore, Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd., gained on reports it agreed to sell its unprofitable discount supermarket chain, sending the Straits Times Index down 0.2%. 

 CURRENCIES 

 The yen rose after a report on Japan's services industry suggested the economy may not be as weak as previously thought, and as a central banker fueled speculation the government will try to bolster stock prices. 

 "Talk of stock-supporting measures from Japanese policy- makers helped the yen over the past week," said Tim Moloney, a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank. Today's report "helped encourage that move, raising questions of whether we've grown too bearish on Japan's economy too soon." 

 Japan's currency pared earlier gains on speculation sparked by a report from Kyodo News that economic and fiscal policy chief Fukushiro Nukaga may resign today after being implicated in a bribery scandal. 

 The yen strengthened as far as 116.25 per dollar, its strongest since January 10, from 117.18 late Friday. Against the euro, the yen gained as far as 108.01 per euro from 109.49 Sunday. It then slipped back to 116.55 per dollar and 109.11 per euro. Europe's regional currency rose to 93.60 cents from 93.42 Sunday. 

 COMMODITIES 

 Kerosene for July delivery on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange rose its daily trading limit of 700 yen, or 3.1%, to 23,450 yen ($200.43) a kiloliter. Kerosene rose after a 5.7% gain in New York crude oil prices Friday on the expectation a winter storm would boost heating demand in the US Northeast, a trader said. Lower-than-normal temperatures in the largest market for heating oil in the US, may sap inventories that are already 14% lower than a year ago after record cold weather in November and December. Some investors bought on the expectation heating oil demand will increase after power disruptions in California, the trader added. The state Independent System Operator, which runs 75% of California's power grid, declared the first-ever Saturday Stage Three alert as reserves dipped to within 1.5% of demand. 

 Gasoline for July delivery on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange rose its daily trading limit 700 yen, or 2.9%, to 25,190 yen a kiloliter after a rise in New York prices Friday, a trader said. Crude oil for February delivery rose $1.74, or 5.7%, to $32.19 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange Friday, the highest price since November 30. 

Trading Floors

Document jpst000020010711dx1n001ah




 Companies: Home Depot Issues Earnings  Warning  For Fourth Quarter --- Three-Month  Profit  Is Down For the 1st Time in 15 Years 

 By Chad Terhune 
Staff Reporter
192 words
22 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 ATLANTA -- Home Depot Inc., facing its first quarterly earnings decline in 15 years, said fourth-quarter earnings will fall short of year-earlier levels because of a tough U.S. economy. 

 The profit warning from the largest home-improvement retailer in the U.S. reinforced how dramatically consumer confidence and spending have plunged in recent months. The company's outlook remains lackluster until further interest-rate cuts or other catalysts put consumers back in a buying mood. 

 Bob Nardelli, Home Depot's president and chief executive since December, said same-store sales have been progressively worsening in the fourth quarter, culminating in a sales decrease this month from a year ago. Overall, he said fourth-quarter sales should be flat. He blamed the weaker sales on a combination of consumers' stock-market losses, record cold weather in the midwestern U.S., rising energy costs and mounting consumer debt. Depressed prices for lumber and other building materials also have been a drag on earnings for several quarters. 

Document wsje000020010713dx1m001gz




 Technology Journal: Unisys Earnings in Quarter Met Lowered Estimate 

 By William M. Bulkeley 
Staff Reporter
451 words
22 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
28
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Unisys Corp. reported fourth-quarter results that met lowered expectations, but said a slowing economy is likely to cut current-quarter results below forecasts. 

 The outlook contrasted with competitor International Business Machines Corp.'s optimistic view for the current year, and depressed Unisys stock, which closed at $15 (16.05 euros), down 25 U.S. cents at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading Friday. 

 Unisys said fourth-quarter profit before a one-time restructuring charge fell 11% to $128.6 million, or 41 cents a diluted share, from net income of $144.4 million, or 46 cents a share. The results were in line with a Unisys warning in early December of lower earnings. Including a $89.5 million restructuring charge, Unisys net was $39.1 million, or 12 cents a share, down 73%. 

 Revenue fell 1.6% to $1.93 billion from $1.96 billion, partly due to a 4% decline from currency conversion. 

 As for the current quarter, Unisys said it expects earnings to be 20 cents to 25 cents a share, down from $106.5 million, or 34 cents a share, a year earlier, and less than the consensus estimate of 28 cents as reported by First Call/Thomson Financial. Due to the weakened first-quarter outlook, Unisys forecast full-year earnings of $1.25 to $1.35 a share. Analysts had expected 2001 earnings of $1.35 a share. 

 Unisys said that it expects 2001 revenue growth "to be at the low end of our 8% to 12% range" predicted in December. The growth forecast excludes commodity hardware products that Unisys won't be selling any more, as well as its federal systems group, which Unisys is considering selling. 

 Gary Helmig, an analyst with Wit Soundview Financial, said, "They have to get the revenue story going. They've had five quarters of revenue decline, and it's getting a little wearying." 

 Unisys of Blue Bell, Pennsylvania, said sales of its large computer systems rose 12% from a year earlier, aided by a new line of mainframes that use Intel Corp. microprocessors. Unisys also said that Hitachi Ltd. will resell the systems, mainly in Japan. Hitachi joins Dell Computer Corp, and Compaq Computer Corp. among others as resellers of the Unisys system. 

 Revenue from the services business declined 7% from strong year-earlier results that were bolstered by helping customers prepare their computers for the transition to the year 2000. 

 Lawrence Weinbach, Unisys chairman and chief executive, said that in recent weeks he repeatedly heard from customers that they were holding back business while they waited to evaluate the economy. 

Document wsje000020010713dx1m001fl




 ADC shares continue to fall on  profit warning . 

296 words
22 January 2001
18:17
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Jan 22 (Reuters) - Shares of ADC Telecommunications Inc. were off 9 percent on Monday, continuing their downward spiral after the telecommunications equipment maker warned last week that it would be hurt by slowing demand. 

 ADC's stock was off $1-5/16 at $14-1/4 on Nasdaq volume of 15.5 million shares. Earlier in the day, shares fell as low as $14-1/16, their lowest level since Nov. 1999. 

 "Everybody is figuring there's not much near-term momentum," Ted Moreau, telecommunications equipment analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co., said. 

 Robertson Stephens analyst Paul Silverstein also cut his rating on ADC to long-term attractive from buy on Monday, joining a lengthening list of brokerages that cut their investment recommendations on ADC. Those brokerages include SG Cowen, ABN AMRO and Josephthal & Co. 

 Last week, the Minneapolis-based company warned that it expects lower fiscal first-quarter sales and earnings when it reports on its results next month. 

 The seller of fiber optic, networking equipment and software to carriers for high-speed Internet, data, video and voice services was just the latest equipment maker to be affected by lower carrier spending projections. 

 "We believe that one of the questions that investors in ADC will have to address is whether the most recent earnings shortfall represents a replay of the 1990 situation when ADC earnings were depressed from 1990 to 1992, or whether the company can make a quick comeback, similar to what happened in fiscal 1998," Lawrence Harris, analyst with Josephthal & Co. said in a research note on Monday. 

 Despite ADC's earnings warning, its shares continue to outperform the Nasdaq Telecommunications Index by more than 50 percent over the past year. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1m06wnm




 WRAPUP-U.S. stocks fall after Dell warns, bonds slip. 

1,033 words
22 January 2001
23:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 22 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks fell slightly after a profit warning from Dell Computer Corp. kept investors wary of tech stocks, while bonds slid as investors shifted into shorter-term debt on hopes that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates aggressively for the second time this month. 

 "This is the blockbuster week where the vast majority of earnings will come out so people are pausing and are willing to take some profits" from the recent rally, said Joseph Barthel, chief investment strategist at Fahnestock & Co. 

 The euro, Europe's single currency, ended higher against the dollar, recovering from its early slide to two-week lows against the greenback after the west German business climate Ifo index fell to 96.5 in December, its lowest level since October 1999. 

 The dollar also lost ground against the Japanese yen, while the euro bounced back from two-week lows against Japan's currency. Playing a role in the euro's bounce back on Monday was soft U.S. economic data, plus more bad news for Japan's yen. The yen skidded after Japanese media reported that the resignation of Japan's economic minister was imminent due to a bribery scandal. 

 In New York, oil futures prices fell, but still hovered near $30 a barrel. Last week, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed to cut production by 5 percent. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index slipped 12.47 points, or 0.45 percent, to end at 2,757.91. Nasdaq succumbed to gravity's pull due to the weakness in computer and software companies after Dell, the No. 2 personal computer firm, blamed a slower economy and sluggish computer demand for its poor earnings outlook. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average declined 9.35 points, or 0.09 percent, to finish at 10,578.24 while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index rose 0.35 of a point, or 0.03 percent, to 1,342.90. 

 The Dow average was bogged down by financial component American Express Co.. American Express fell $3-5/8 to $45 after it posted a 12 percent jump in earnings, but warned that earnings growth this year would be at the low end of its current target because of weak financial markets and a slowing economy. 

 Dell, Nasdaq's most actively traded share, which fell to a session low of $23-5/8, finished off just 1/8 at $25-1/2. But it did nudge rivals lower on worries the softening global economy also would pressure their profits. 

 But despite the pall cast by Dell, the market has largely withstood bad news, as it did after other bellwethers have warned recently. 

 Among Nasdaq stalwarts, Web gear giant Cisco Systems Inc. rose $1-1/16 to $41-7/16. Another bright spot was biotech leader Amgen Inc., up $7-5/8 at $67-5/8, helping lift the shares of rivals and the Nasdaq biotech index up 5.32 percent. 

 On Friday, a U.S. federal judge ruled a small firm, Transkaryotic Therapies, infringed upon at least one of Amgen's patents for Epogen, the blockbuster anemia drug. Transkaryotic plunged $10-7/8 to $23-1/8. 

 Investors are waiting for Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan to address the U.S. Senate Budget Committee on Thursday to see if he will confirm growing expectations for another half-point interest-rate cut at next week's Fed meeting to perk up the flagging U.S. economy. 

 "There's an element of caution in the air but once we get through this week, we will refocus attention on the Fed and whether we will have a rate cut of 25 or 50 basis points at the end of this month," said Fahnestock's Barthel. 

 On Monday morning, after the stock and bond markets opened, the Conference Board, a private group, reported that the index of leading U.S. economic indicators fell 0.6 percent in December, marking its third straight monthly drop. 

 In the U.S. Treasury market, dealers sold longer-term debt and bought two-year Treasury notes and other shorter-term debts in anticipation of another interest-rate cut this month from the Federal Reserve. The Fed's policy-makers, the Federal Reserve Open Market Committee, will meet on Jan. 30-31. 

 At the 5 p.m. EST (2200 GMT) close, two-year Treasury notes were flat at 100-22/32. Their yield, which moves inversely to the price, held at 4.75 percent. 

 The 30-year bond tumbled 24/32, or $7.50 on each $1,000 of face value, to 109-7/32 on the heels of a 1-8/32 drop on Friday. Its yield rose to 5.61 percent from 5.56 percent on Friday. The benchmark 10-year note slid 14/32 to 103-28/32, yielding 5.23 percent, up from 5.18 percent at Friday's close. 

 Volume was relatively light as the market focused on a scheduled speech by Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan to the Senate Finance Committee on Thursday. 

 In late U.S. currency dealings, the euro was trading at 93.93 cents, up from 93.36 cents at Friday's close. Against the Japanese yen, the dollar fell to 116.29 yen from 117.10 yen late Friday. 

 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for February settled unchanged at $32.19 a barrel and expired at the end of regular trading on Monday. The March crude contract, which becomes the new front-month NYMEX contract, closed at $29.80, down 39 cents. 

 In London, the blue-chip FTSE-100 index gained 22.7 points, or 0.37 percent, to finish at 6,232.0, its highest close in five weeks, on the demand for bank and oil stocks like Standard Chartered and BP Amoco. 

 In Tokyo, the benchmark Nikkei 225 average closed above 14,000, for its seventh straight day of gains, driven higher by demand for such old-economy shares as Nissan Motor Co. The Nikkei added 43.30 points, or 0.31 percent, to finish at 14,032.42. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1m06w07




 Toronto stocks lower at midday on sluggish techs. 

369 words
22 January 2001
17:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

     TORONTO, Jan 22 (Reuters) - Weakness in technology stocks, 

 triggered by a profit warning from Dell Computer Corp. 

 , pushed Toronto's main equity index lower at midday on 

 Monday, but a gaining financial services sector helped cushion 

 the blow. 


    The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index	  was



down 55.51 points, or 0.61 percent, at 9105.56 at midday.



Market momentum was positive with 466 issues rising and 414



falling. About 78.4 million shares worth C$1.2 billion changed



hands.



    "People are cautious. They still do not trust growth



prospects at tech companies," a Toronto trader said.



    "Nortel's good results helped the index on Friday. But with



Dell today it is the same old story," he added.



    Dell, the No. 2 personal computer maker, said on Monday its



fourth-quarter results would fall below forecasts, due to a



slowing global economy and sluggish demand for computer systems



and services.



Overall in Toronto, five of the TSE 300's 14 subindexes



were down. The industrial products sector, which includes



Nortel and other tech issues, was off nearly 3 percent.



Among tech stocks, Nortel Networks Corp. , which



represents nearly a fifth of the TSE 300, was down C$2.85 at



C$58. Research In Motion Ltd. was down C$4 at C$95.



Celestica Inc. fell 45 Canadian cents to C$106.05.



The metals and minerals sector was down 1.5 percent as



heavyweight Alcan Aluminium Ltd. dropped nearly 2



percent, or 95 Canadian cents, to C$51.60.



The financial services sector moved nearly 1.5 percent



higher, with the Bank of Montreal rising C$1.05 to



C$78.30.



Shares of Chapters Inc. rose 80 Canadian cents to



C$16.90 after privately owned Trilogy raised its hostile bid



for Canada's largest bookseller to C$17 a share from $15.



Trilogy said its offer was better than the one from white



knight bidder Future Shop Ltd. , a Vancouver-based



electronic superstore chain. Ontario's securities watchdog on



Sunday ordered Chapters to remove its poison pill, or



shareholder rights plan, clearing the way for Trilogy to press



ahead with its bid.



($1=$1.51 Canadian).


Document lba0000020010712dx1m00m06




 RESEARCH ALERT-Robertson Stephens cuts ADC Telecoms. 

53 words
22 January 2001
13:27
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 22 (Reuters) - Robertson Stephens on Monday said analyst Paul Silverstein had cut his rating on ADC Telecommunications Inc. to long-term attractive from buy. 

 ADC, a telecommunications gear maker, issued a first-quarter profit warning on Thursday. 

 No further details were immediately available. 

Document lba0000020010712dx1m00lgm




 Marketing & Media 
 Home Depot Warns of Earnings Shortfall 

 By Chad Terhune 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
766 words
22 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal
J
B8
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 ATLANTA -- Home Depot Inc., facing its first quarterly earnings decline in 15 years, said its fiscal fourth-quarter earnings will fall short of a year earlier because of a "tough economy." 

 The profit warning from the largest home-improvement retailer reinforced how drastically consumer confidence and spending have plunged in recent months. The company's outlook in coming months remains lackluster until further interest-rate cuts or other catalysts put consumers back in a buying mood. 

 Bob Nardelli, Home Depot's president and chief executive since December, said same-store sales have been getting progressively worse in the fourth quarter, culminating with a sales decrease so far this month from a year ago. Overall, he said, fourth-quarter sales should be flat. He blamed the weak sales on a combination of consumers' stock-market losses, record cold weather in the Midwest, rising energy costs and mounting consumer debt. Depressed prices for lumber and other building materials have also been a drag on earnings for several quarters. 

 "We expect that many of the same economic factors affecting sales in the current quarter will persist in the first half of fiscal 2001, arguing for a cautious near-term outlook," Mr. Nardelli told analysts and investors. "If [interest] rate cuts come, it will take awhile for those to trickle down." 

 In October, Home Depot issued a profit warning for its third and fourth quarters, citing the slowdown in economic growth. At the time, it still expected fourth-quarter earnings to increase to 26 cents a share from 25 cents a year earlier. That profit warning sent Home Depot shares down 28%. 

 Friday, Home Depot said it now expects net income in the quarter ending Sunday to be about 20 cents a share, or down 20% from a year ago. That is below the consensus estimate of 24 cents a share from 24 analysts surveyed by First Call/ Thomson Financial. A year earlier, Home Depot had net income of $578 million on sales of $9.2 billion. Taking the revision into account, earnings for the latest fiscal year are expected to be $1.10 a share compared with $1 a year earlier. 

 The latest profit warning followed earlier warnings from rival Lowe's Cos. and building-materials manufacturers such as Masco Corp. because of slower sales. 

 "Home Depot is a good indicator for a consumer recession," said Peter Caruso, an analyst at Merrill Lynch Global Securities. "This indicates the Federal Reserve better start cutting rates fast and furious. This is for the Fed to fix, not Mr. Nardelli." 

 Home Depot shares were down $3.25, or 7.3%, to $41 at 4 p.m. Friday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The profit warning dragged down other retail stocks and helped send the Dow Jones Industrial Average, of which Home Depot is a component, down 90.69 points. 

 The last time Home Depot's net income fell was the fourth quarter of 1985. Back then, Home Depot was a relatively young company with only about 50 stores. Today, it has 1,020 U.S. stores and 74 others in Canada and South America. Some on Wall Street suggest Home Depot is experiencing the same growing pains that Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Bentonville, Ark., ran into about four years ago when its growth rate began to decline because of its sheer size. 

 New stores don't provide the same lift they once did as Home Depot cannibalizes existing locations and faces more competition from Lowe's in major markets. In the fourth quarter, the company said the number of transactions was up just 13% from a year earlier even though store square footage had grown about 20% over the period. Average ticket growth has been slipping for the past year as well. Regardless, Home Depot is sticking to its aggressive expansion plans, with 225 new stores slated this year. 

 Mr. Nardelli, who joined Home Depot from General Electric Co. last month, is focusing on internal efficiencies and better inventory management. Home Depot said that in the fourth quarter, inventory per store is down 4%. However, some of that comes from a 10%-off sales promotion before Christmas, which helped weed out $100 million in discontinued goods. 

 Several analysts significantly cut their earnings estimates for the coming fiscal year based on Home Depot's cautious outlook. Mr. Nardelli wouldn't give any specific guidance beyond the current fiscal fourth quarter. Home Depot plans to report results for the quarter on Feb. 20. 

Document j000000020010711dx1m002wt




 Despite Spending Fears, Quarter To Be Good For Fiber Cos 

 By Johnathan Burns 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
901 words
22 January 2001
15:37
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Despite signs that the world's largest communications carriers are curtailing infrastructure spending, a host of fiber optics components and systems makers are expected to post strong results in the fourth quarter. 

 Led by component sector bellwether JDS Uniphase Corp. (JDSU), fiber cable maker Corning Inc. (GLW) and systems maker Ciena Corp. (CIEN), fiber optic companies will show swelling revenue and earnings growth as they continue to sell into the sweet spot of telecommunications spending. 

 "The optical market is still growing in the 40% range," said Tom Lauria, telecommunications equipment analyst with ING Barings LLC. "I don't think we'll see it slow down (in 2001)." 

 However, a couple of companies with exposure to the broader telecommunications equipment market will report disappointing results for the quarter, as spending in legacy and non-fiber equipment slows. One-time equipment king Lucent Technologies Inc. (LU) will report disappointing results as it continues to recover from a disastrous 2000, while ADC Telecommunications Inc. (ADCT) issued a profit warning Friday after seeing carrier spending drop. 

 JDS Uniphase, the largest independent maker of fiber optic components, is expected to earn 19 cents a share in the company's fiscal second quarter, according to a First Call/Thomson Financial survey of analysts. The company earned 9 cents a share in the year-ago period. Revenue is expected to land between $916 million and $920 million. 

 Jim Jungjohann, telecommunications equipment analyst with CIBC World Markets Corp., said he expects JDS Uniphase to post sales of $924 million, up 228% year-over-year. He also expects margins to top 50%. 

 The company sells components to systems makers like Lucent, Nortel Networks Corp. (NT) and Alcatel SA (ALA), and therefore JDS Uniphase's revenue will be seen as an important indicator of the entire sector's health. 

 The company's stock valuation has not been immune to the general slowdown in carrier spending. However, SG Cowen analyst John Butler said he remains very bullish on JDSU. 

 "We believe that the long-term capital spending cycle for optical systems and components remains well intact and based on this, we believe JDSU's long-term opportunity remains solid," he said in a recent note. 

 Fellow component maker SDL Inc. (SDLI) is expected to report fourth-quarter earnings of 49 cents a share, the last earnings it will report if its merger with JDS Uniphase closes at the end of the month as planned. In the year-ago period, the company earned 15 cents a share, adjusted for a 2-for-1 stock split, according to First Call. Revenue is expected to be somewhere around $170 million, based on strong sales from the company's pump laser business. 

 Corning is expected to earn 28 cents a share in fourth quarter, according to First Call. Last year, the company earned 18 cents a share. Revenue is expected to top $2 billion, as demand for the company's cable continues to outstrip supply. 

 "All indications are that the market for optical fiber remains strong, to the point that some companies in the optical fiber market are reporting record orders, backlog and even prepayments on 'take-or-pay' contracts," said Raj Srikanth, optics analyst with Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. 

 Component maker ADC Telecommunications, which issued a profit warning Friday, will still see its fiber connectivity sales double, but slowing spending across its copper connectivity and systems integration product lines will tug at earnings. The company said it will earn between 5 cents and 7 cents a share during its fiscal 2001 first quarter while revenue comes in at about $800 million. The company had been expected to earn 12 cents a share on revenue of about $850 million. 

 On the systems maker sides, Ciena is expected to earn 15 cents a share in the company's fiscal first quarter, according to First Call. The company earned 3 cents a share last year, adjusted for a 2-for-1 split. 

 Revenue is expected to be around $320 million. 

 "The straight wave division multiplexing business has been very strong for Ciena," Lauria said. "They're as well placed in the sector as anyone, because they are a pure optical play. And they have been growing their revenues fairly well." 

 Lauria said he expects to see the company's CoreDirector optical switch continue to gain market acceptance. 

 Tellabs Inc. (TLAB) is expected to earn 56 cents a share in the company's fourth quarter, according to First Call. The company earned 41 cents a share last year. Revenue is expected to be about $1 billion. 

 Meanwhile, Lucent is expected to have a loss of 27 cents a share in the company's fiscal year 2001 first quarter, compared with earnings of 33 cents a share a year ago. 

 The company is expected to record revenue of $6.2 billion as it struggles to cut costs and realign its business around high-growth products. 

 "I certainly think Lucent has a 2001 where the company has a lot of room to outperform expectations," Lauria said. "This company could possibly have some positive surprises. Right now, it's not clear what the drivers will be. It really is a stock that people want to believe in." 

 -By Johnathan Burns, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2020; johnathan.burns@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010711dx1m0274g




 MARKET TALK: Advisor CSFB Reinstates Buy On MarchFirst 

1,189 words
22 January 2001
15:15
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:15 (Dow Jones) CSFB reinstates coverage of MarchFirst (MRCH) with
buy rating and $8 price target, but remains "a bit cautious" on fiscal
2001 - forecasting fiscal 2001 revenue and losses well-below the
struggling Web consulting firm's guidance. CSFB, which was paid $10.5
million to be MarchFirst's financial advisor in a recent $150 million
financing, says MarchFirst's restructuring is well underway. Co. reports
4Q on Feb. 12. Shares up 50% to $2.78. (MLP)



10:10 (Dow Jones) EUR slide may be worrying for some, but not for
economists at UBS Warburg. They say slide is still a correction
following sharp gains rather than "start of a prolonged downturn." (NEH)



10:05 (Dow Jones) American Depositary Receipts of Venezuelan consumer
products company Mavesa SA (MAV) are up 12.8% to $8.25 after Polar, the
country's largest brewer, offered to buy 65% of the company's shares at
$8.50 per ADR. (AG)



9:59 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch cut its 2001 target for the TSE 300
composite index, Canada's main stock benchmark, to 10,500 from 11,000
points, citing lower growth estimates for the global economy and limited
multiple expansion for the key index. The TSE 300 was recently trading
down 1.0% at 9068.90. (BED)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Stocks out to soft open, with technology moving
lower. Biotechs, retailers, and drugs show moderate strength. DJIA off
23 at 10568, Nasdaq drops 35 to 2735, and S&P 500 eases 2 to 1240. (TG)



9:43 (Dow Jones) Merrill has Texas Instruments (TXN) posting 4Q EPS of
33c later Monday, with no upside likely. But the possibility of a soft
1Q aside, firm says TI is the large-cap semiconductor name investors
should own for long-term. Meanwhile, Merrill says Vitesse (VTSS) should
report 24c a share later today, with moderate upside potential. (TG)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen opening 20-25 cents a barrel lower,
correcting Friday's technical gains in volatile pre-expiry trade of Feb.
contract. Friday's strong close points to uptrend but Monday is Feb.
contract's "last trading day, so anything can happen," analyst says.
Feb. crude, down 19c to $32 on ACCESS, faces resistance at $32.40;
support is pegged at $31.40. March crude is down 14c to $30.05 overnight
in ACCESS trade. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) While CSFB, ABN Amro, and Robbie Stephens upgraded
Dell Computer (DELL) very recently, Merrill issues a note this morning
saying it expects Dell to pre-announce a miss for the January quarter
within the next two weeks. The firm underestimated the extent of Dell's
miss, though, as it lowered its 4Q estimate to 23c a share from 26c
(Dell earlier said it would post 18c-19c a share). Merrill reiterates
buy, and views any significant weakness in shares as buying opportunity.
(TG)



9:14 (Dow Jones) UBS' Ed Kerschner offers report this morning on
FASB's likely elimination of pooling accounting for M&A. Firms benefit
from higher earnings due to lack of goodwill amortization plus greater
asset value and higher shareholder equity. Among downsides: lower
quality of earnings (that increase in earnings is just an accounting
change, remember?). Kerschner sees an aggregate 5% to 6% boost for S&P
500 EPS. (GC)



9:09 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is heading higher after failure to break
below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed
cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan. 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9302
after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Lehman expects Veritas' (VRTS) Dec. quarter results
to be a penny, maybe two, ahead of expectations. Firm also believes
company may raise guidance, driven by strong fundamentals and healthy
demand by IT managers for company's clustering, server-less back-up, and
file system products. While concerns over declining IT spending remain,
Lehman says money is being spent on "must-have" and mission critical
software, which includes Veritas' data availability products. Reiterates
strong buy, price target $160. (TG)



8:59 (Dow Jones) You want it when? Results of Accenture's (formerly
Andersen Consulting) holiday B2C study: 67% of deliveries weren't
received as ordered, and 12% didn't make it by X-mas. Bricks-and-clicks
operators had better on-time deliveries than "pure play" e-tailers.
Accenture placed nearly 600 orders between Nov. 27-Dec. 4. on about 100
Web sites. (GC)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m0272h




 N.Y. Stocks End Scantily Lower; Low-Hanging Fruit Picked 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
1,414 words
22 January 2001
21:24
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Another batch of downbeat earnings statements kept Wall Street's newfound optimism in check, but the losses, as measured by the averages, proved pretty modest. 

 Computer makers, a group that had begun to pick up a following last week after a brutal sell-off in the preceding months, came under fire again. International Business Machines fell $2.69 to $108.56, while Hewlett-Packard lost 1.25 to 34.56, and Gateway declined 2.24 to 21.45. 

 The losses came after rival PC maker Dell Computer said its fourth-quarter earnings weren't going to be as strong as the company previously forecast. Analysts said they had seen a profit warning coming, which allowed for a relatively modest sell-off - shares eased 13 cents to 25.50 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading - though they also said the scope of the profit reduction caught them by surprise. 

 Meanwhile, some of the suppliers that sell gear and services to Dell fell in sympathy, with electronics manufacturer SCI Systems, down 3 to 30.69, as well as Jabil Circuit, another manufacturer, which lost 1.88 to 35.13. 

 Nevertheless, investors, even in the technology sector, allowed themselves the luxury of picking some of the low-hanging fruit - the companies slated to issue profit statements shortly in which investors had some confidence about the profitability. 

 Shares of Veritas Software 1.44 to 100.69 on Nasdaq, reflecting some of the optimism about what its earnings should show. Vitesse Semiconductor, which gained 1.56 to 67.25, and Openwave Systems, which found some support from Lehman Brothers ahead of Monday's late release of quarterly results, added 4.25 to 53.25, also on Nasdaq. 

 "The tone has been a little better the last few days," Scott Curtis, head of trading at Kaufman Brothers, said Monday. "It seems to be a case where, maybe the bull isn't fully back, but the bear isn't as ferocious as it was." 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index finished the session off 12.47, or 0.45%, to 2757.91, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average declined 9.35, or 0.09%, to 10578.24. 

 On the New York Stock Exchange, there were 1,617 issues advancing, 1,243 declining and 438 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1,126,708,910 shares, compared with 1,399,113,280 Friday. 

 The NYSE Composite Index was 648.19, up 1.62. The average price per share rose 10 cents. 

 Shares of American Express lost ground, falling 3.63 to 45, after the financial-services giant posted fourth-quarter results that matched analysts' projections, but also made some cautious comments about its earnings for 2001, adding that it expects economic weakness to continue, hurting its growth. 

 Shares of several retailers made progress in the session, after Goldman Sachs issued some upbeat comments about the sector. Shares of Federated Department Stores rose 2.50 to 40.50, Target gained 1.81 to 34.56, and Sears Roebuck advanced 2.92 to 36.60. Goldman raised its ratings on those names, as well as Gap, which increased 3.25 to 29.25, and TJX, which gained 1.31 to 28.81. 

 In a research note, Goldman's George Strachan, a retail-sector analyst, said that the prospects of declining fuel costs, a tax cut and further interest-rate reductions could lead to a recovery in spending by consumers. The enthusiasm lifted the broader sector in one of its better performances of late, with Wal-Mart Stores higher by 1.75 to 52.56, while Home Depot gained 2.75 to 43.75. 

 The biotechnology sector also managed to post sharp gains. Amgen gained 7.63 to 67.63 on Nasdaq. A federal-court judge in Boston ruled Friday that rival Transkaryotic Therapies had infringed Amgen patents for its anemia treatment, preserving the company's monopoly for its top-selling drug. 

 Shares of Transkaryotic fell 10.88 to 23.13 on Nasdaq. 

 The ruling also helped restore some confidence in the safety of other biotech companies' patents. Shares of Human Genome Sciences advanced 2.44 to 56, while Protein Design Labs rose 3.63 to 58.25, both on Nasdaq, after CIBC World Markets said the companies have important patent estates. 

 Texas Instruments lost 1.75 to 48.56 in Monday's trading session. After the closing bell, the chip maker reported fourth-quarter results that fell short of analysts' projections. 

 Oracle fell 2.75 to 31.81 on Nasdaq. Traders reported  speculation on trading desks and Internet message boards positing that the company planned to amend the quarterly Securities & Exchange Commission filing it submitted last week, presumably to reveal some adverse news. The company denied that it had plans to amend that filing. 

 InfoSpace lost 1.88 to 7.03 on Nasdaq. The Bellevue, Wash., provider of communications infrastructure services to wireless carriers and Web sites said it renamed Haveen Jain as chief executive, taking over for Arun Sarin, who replaced Jain, InfoSpace's founder, in April. Sarin will remain at the company as vice chairman. 

 Concord EFS added 2.06 to 37.25 on Nasdaq. The Memphis, Tenn., provider of electronic transaction services said it reached an agreement with Wal-Mart Stores to help process debit transactions for Wal-Mart and Sam's Clubs stores. 

 Scientific-Atlanta fell 1.94 to 55.56. Morgan Stanley lowered its rating on shares of the Atlanta cable-television equipment maker. 

 Powerwave Technology slid 7.31 to 39.75 on Nasdaq. UBS Warburg cut its rating on the Irvine, Calif., supplier of wireless communications network equipment, saying that, because of industry changes, it saw little opportunity for price-to-earnings multiples to expand in the sector. 

 ADC Telecommunications fell 1.31 to 14.25 on Nasdaq, sinking to a 52-week low, after having lost 27% Friday, when the Minneapolis communications equipment maker lowered its earnings outlook for its fiscal first quarter and 2001 fiscal year. More firms cut their ratings on the stock Monday, though many already had done so on Friday. 

 Schering-Plough finished fractionally lower, losing 6 cents to 52.31, though shares traded higher intraday. The Food and Drug Administration approved its once-a-week injectable version of a treatment for chronic hepatitis C. 

 Enzon climbed 5.36 to 59.73 on Nasdaq. The Piscataway, N.J., biopharmaceuticials maker developed the technology that makes the Schering-Plough treatment, called Peg-Intron powder, stay active longer in the body. 

 PerkinElmer added 1.94 to 89.44. Thomas Weisel Partners issued an upbeat outlook for the Boston life sciences concern's quarterly results, which are expected to be released Thursday. 

 Oxford Health moved up 3.06 to 32.31 on Nasdaq. CIBC World Markets boosted its rating on the Trumbull, Conn.,  health maintenance organization, saying that the company's fundamentals have improved. 

 Aflac moved ahead 3.06 to 59.75. Lehman Brothers boosted its rating on the Columbus, Ga., insurance provider, saying that, with a recent price decline, including an 8% loss Friday, investors have an opportunity to buy a high-quality company at a reasonable price. 

 Duke Energy gained 1.19 to 74. Salomon Smith Barney raised its rating on the Charlotte, N.C.,  electric power company, after the company's announcement Friday increasing its earnings forecast. 

 Walt Disney lost 1.56 to 31.13. An article in Monday's edition of The Wall Street Journal raised questions about the outlook for the Burbank, Calif., entertainment concern's new theme park in Anaheim, Calif., given the decline in economic growth. The new park is slated to open Feb. 8. (The Journal is published by Dow Jones, which also publishes this newswire.) 

 Gillette gained 56 cents to 34.25. The Boston consumer products maker said it named James M. Kilts, a former Nabisco Holdings executive, as chairman and chief executive, effective Feb. 12. 

 Enron gained 4.19 to 75.06. The Houston natural gas and energy concern reported quarterly results that topped what Wall Street anticipated. The company also said it doesn't expect the problems in the California energy market to affect its earnings this year. 

 Clear Channel Communications lost 2.38 to 59.38, following some cautious comments by Lehman Brothers about the broadcasting industry. 

 Cox Radio lost 1 to 25.50, after Bear Stearns lowered its rating on the Atlanta radio broadcaster. 

5042

Document dj00000020010711dx1m025g5




 BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - US stocks lower. 

568 words
22 January 2001
18:43
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 22, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 US stocks lower on earnings worries 

 New York-Jan. 22-U.S. stocks were lower in afternoon trade as investors worried about the outlook for the economy and corporate earnings. Disney (DIS) led the percentage losers on the Dow, falling 6% to 30 11/16 after Sanford C. Bernstein said it expects first-quarter earnings at 13 cents a share, below First Call's 15-cent estimate. IBM (IBM) and Hewlett-Packard (HWP) also led the losers after Dell (DELL) issued a profit warning earlier. IBM surged almost 19% last week, however, so some traders said this is normal profit taking. The Nasdaq was last down 28 points to 2741 and the Dow was down 62 points to 10,524. ( Story .1300 ) 

 US 30-year bonds fall on expected 50 bps rate cut

 New York-Jan. 22-The long end of the Treasury curve was down sharply while the short end was flat as participants continue to look for a 50 basis point interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve at its meeting Jan. 30 and 31. The 30-year bond was down 20/32 while the two-year note was unchanged. ( Story .312 ) 

 European stocks dip into red on technology sector weakness 

 London-Jan. 22-European stocks were all down on adverse news from the European technology, media and telecommunications sector. France Telecom expects to receive much less than it originally expected for the shares of the mobile phone operator Orange it plans to offer on the market. At 1248 GMT, the U.K.'s benchmark FTSE-100 index was down 51 points at 6167 and Germany's Xetra DAX-30 was down 52 points at 6599. ( Story .1154 ) 

 Dollar falls against yen, rises versus euro 

 New York-Jan. 22-In a continuation of trends seen Friday, the dollar fell against the Japanese yen but rose relative to the euro.The euro fell to an 18-day low against the dollar of 92.75 cents. The dollar slipped to 116.25 yen, a 12-day low. In early trading, the dollar was at 116.56 yen, down from 117.20 yen on Friday. The euro was at 92.78 cents, down from 93.45 cents on Friday. ( Story .700 ) 

 European government debt drift downward continues 

 London-Jan. 22-European debt markets traded in negative territory, continuing a trend started late last week. However, longer-dated bonds have performed significantly more strongly. The euro's continuing weakness is weighing on short-term debt securities. The Mar German government bond, or Bund, future is lower by 0.06 to 108.29. ( Story .332 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 Japan stocks end higher for seventh straight session 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-The Nikkei closed higher for the seventh consecutive trading day for the first time since Aug. 17, 1999. The benchmark turned into positive territory just before the market closed. The Nikkei rose 43.30 points, or 0.3% to 14,032.42. ( Story .1105 ) 

 Japan bonds close higher 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-March yen bond futures closed sharply higher, maintaining their morning gains. The Bank of Japan's monthly economic report, as well as fluctuations in Nikkei stock prices, had little impact on the yen bond market. March yen bond futures closed at 137.00 yen, up 0.53 from Friday. ( Story .100 ) 

 d 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1m0087z




 BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - Europe stocks make  cautious  start. 

458 words
22 January 2001
11:42
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 22, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 Japan stocks end higher for seventh straight session 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-The Nikkei closed higher for the seventh consecutive trading day for the first time since Aug. 17, 1999. The benchmark turned into positive territory just before the market closed. The Nikkei rose 43.30 points, or 0.3% to 14,032.42. ( Story .1105 ) 

 Japan bonds close higher 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-March yen bond futures closed sharply higher, maintaining their morning gains. The Bank of Japan's monthly economic report as well as fluctuations in the Nikkei stock prices had little impact on the yen bond market. March yen bond futures closed at 137.00 yen, up 0.53 from Friday. ( Story .100 ) 

 European stocks get off to cautious start 

 London-Jan. 22-Europe's equity markets started the week cautiously, hovering around unchanged in early trading, after a subdued day of consolidation on Wall Street Friday. The main news came from France Telecom (FR;FTE), which confirmed it is to float 13% of its mobile phone unit Orange at between 11.5 and 13.5 euros per share ($10.7-12.6). ( Story .1154 ) 

 Euro falls to five-day low vs. dollar 

 London-Jan. 22-The euro continued to edge lower following weaker-than-expected German business sentiment data, even though the actual Ifo index number was not as bad as some traders had feared. The euro touched a five-day low of 0.9306 against the dollar after the data was released. ( Story .700 ) 

 US Treasuries slightly higher 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-U.S. Treasuries, especially 2-year notes, 5-year notes and 10-year notes, were slightly higher than late New York on Friday due to speculative buying on price dips. At 0335 GMT, the 30-year bonds were unchanged at 109 28/32. ( Story .302 ) 

 Bunds fall back on German business confidence data 

 London-Jan. 22-March German government bonds, or Bunds, shrugged off the early-morning low of 108.12 to bounce to 108.31. However, Bunds gave back some of their gains after West German business confidence data was released, falling to 108.17. ( Story .332 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 Nasdaq ekes out gain while Dow ends lower 

 New York-Jan. 19-The Nasdaq ended almost unchanged as investors digested recent gains and some mixed earnings reports. The Dow industrials ended lower, however, as a profit warning from Home Depot (US;HD) and general concerns about the slowing economy weighed heavily on the index. The Nasdaq closed up 1.92, or 0.07%, to 2770.41 and the Dow was down 90.69, or 0.85%, to 10,587.59. ( Story .1300 ) 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1m005sj




 BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - Europe stocks m+-ke  cautious  start. 

458 words
22 January 2001
10:05
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 22, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 Japan stocks end higher for seventh straight session 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-The Nikkei closed higher for the seventh consecutive trading day for the first time since Aug. 17, 1999. The benchmark turned into positive territory just before the market closed. The Nikkei rose 43.30 points, or 0.3% to 14,032.42. ( Story .1105 ) 

 Japan bonds close higher 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-March yen bond futures closed sharply higher, maintaining their morning gains. The Bank of Japan's monthly economic report as well as fluctuations in the Nikkei stock prices had little impact on the yen bond market. March yen bond futures closed at 137.00 yen, up 0.53 from Friday. ( Story .100 ) 

 European stocks get off to cautious start 

 London-Jan. 22-Europe's equity markets started the week cautiously, hovering around unchanged in early trading, after a subdued day of consolidation on Wall Street Friday. The main news came from France Telecom (FR;FTE), which confirmed it is to float 13% of its mobile phone unit Orange at between 11.5 and 13.5 euros per share ($10.7-12.6). ( Story .1154 ) 

 Euro falls to five-day low 

 London-Jan. 22-The euro continued to edge lower following weaker-than-expected German business sentiment data, even though the actual Ifo index number was not as bad as some traders had feared. The euro touched a five-day low of 0.9306 against the dollar after the data was released. ( Story .700 ) 

 US Treasuries slightly higher 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-U.S. Treasuries, especially 2-year notes, 5-year notes and 10-year notes, were slightly higher than late New York on Friday due to speculative buying on price dips. At 0335 GMT, the 30-year bonds were unchanged at 109 28/32. ( Story .302 ) 

 Bunds fall back on German business confidence data 

 London-Jan. 22-March German government bonds, or Bunds, shrugged off the early-morning low of 108.12 to bounce to 108.31. However, Bunds gave back some of their gains after West German business confidence data was released, falling to 108.17. ( Story .332 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 Nasdaq ekes out gain while Dow ends lower 

 New York-Jan. 19-The Nasdaq ended almost unchanged as investors digested recent gains and some mixed earnings reports. The Dow industrials ended lower, however, as a profit warning from Home Depot (US;HD) and general concerns about the slowing economy weighed heavily on the index. The Nasdaq closed up 1.92, or 0.07%, to 2770.41 and the Dow was down 90.69, or 0.85%, to 10,587.59. ( Story .1300 ) 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1m005sa




 BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - Euro dips to 5-day low vs. dollar. 

417 words
22 January 2001
09:19
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 22, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 Japan stocks end higher for seventh straight session 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-The Nikkei closed higher for the seventh consecutive trading day for the first time since Aug. 17, 1999. The benchmark turned into positive territory just before the market closed on short-covering by short-term dealers and bargain-hunting, erasing earlier losses. The Nikkei rose 43.30 points, or 0.3% to 14,032.42. ( Story .1105 ) 

 Japan bonds close higher 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-March yen bond futures closed sharply higher, maintaining their morning gains. The Bank of Japan's monthly economic report as well as fluctuations in the Nikkei stock prices had little impact on the yen bond market. March yen bond futures closed at 137.00 yen, up 0.53 from Friday. ( Story .100 ) 

 Euro dips to five-day low against dollar 

 London-Jan. 22-The euro has slipped below the floor of 0.9330 set in Asian trade to hit a five-day low of 0.9323 against the dollar during the European morning session. Traders blamed fears of a weak German business sentiment survey, which actually turned out to be better than some had expected when the data was released at 0900 GMT. ( Story .700 ) 

 US Treasuries slightly higher 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-U.S. Treasuries, especially 2-year notes, 5-year notes and 10-year notes, were slightly higher than late New York on Friday due to speculative buying on price dips. At 0335 GMT, the 30-year bonds were unchanged at 109 28/32. Meanwhile, the 10-year notes were up 4/32 at 104 11/32 and the 5-year notes were up 4/32 at 104 1/32. ( Story .302 ) 

 Bunds start week lower 

 London-Jan. 22-March German government bonds, or Bunds, extended their decline from Friday's close and opened down 0.14 to 108.21. ( Story .337 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 Nasdaq ekes out gain while Dow ends lower 

 New York-Jan. 19-The Nasdaq ended almost unchanged as investors digested recent gains and some mixed earnings reports. The Dow industrials ended lower, however, as a profit warning from Home Depot(US;HD) and general concerns about the slowing economy weighed heavily on the index. The Nasdaq closed up 1.92, or 0.07%, to 2770.41 and the Dow was down 90.69, or 0.85%, to 10,587.59. ( Story .1300 ) 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1m005s7


 News - Page One 
 News Briefs 

321 words
22 January 2001
Computerworld
CWOR
14
English
 (Copyright 2001 by Computerworld, Inc. All rights reserved.) 

 More Dot-com Layoffs 

 The latest victims in a long series of layoffs at news-oriented Web sites worked at NBC Internet Inc. Late last week, San Francisco-based NBCi said it was cutting its revenue projections by one-third, to $100 million, which will result in 150 layoffs, or 30% of the staff. These lost jobs will be added to the more than 43,000 layoffs that have occurred in the Internet market during the past year. According to Zona Research Inc. in Redwood City, Calif., even with steadily increasing layoffs, the Internet employment downturn represents only 0.7% of those unemployed in the U.S. 

 Microsoft Meets Lowered Estimates 

 Microsoft Corp. reported financial results for its fiscal second quarter that were in line with a reduced-expectations warning issued last month, adding that it remains "guarded" about how the short-term economic outlook will affect PC demand and overall technology spending. Microsoft had a profit of $2.62 billion on revenue of $6.59 billion in the quarter ended Dec. 31, but the latter figure was roughly 6% below its original plan. 

 PCs, Macs Stumble 

 Gateway Inc. last week announced it would lay off 10% of its workers after previously revealing much lower profits on decreased revenue for its fourth quarter. The San Diego-based company also set lower expectations for growth, at least through the first half of this year. Apple Computer Inc. said its loss for the most recent quarter reached $195 million on a sales shortfall of more than $600 million. Apple CEO Steve Jobs expressed optimism for business in the current quarter. 

 Staffing Changes 

 Vignette Corp., a supplier of electronic-business applications, confirmed Friday that it has cut about 450 jobs, or 15% of its workforce, to reduce operations cost. 

 ... TechNet, a technology advocacy group. in Palo Alto, Calif., has named former Rep. Rick White (R-Wash.) its new CEO. 

Document cwor000020010711dx1m0007t




 Technology 
 Microsoft's Second-Quarter Results Meet Lowered Earnings Forecasts --- Net Profit Rises 7% as Revenue Slightly Beats Expectations --- Future Is Clouded by Outlook for Office Software Sales 

 By Rebecca Buckman 
Staff Reporter
818 words
22 January 2001
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
N2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Microsoft Corp., still battling lackluster sales of personal computers, posted earnings in line with lowered expectations for its fiscal second quarter, though revenue was slightly higher than expected. 

 The Redmond, Washington, software company also appeared to dodge another bullet, at least for now, by eking out slightly more revenue than expected in its venerable -- though slow-growing -- desktop-applications business. That franchise, mainly consisting of Microsoft's popular Office software suite, posted sales about 2% lower than last year. 

 In an interview, Microsoft Chief Financial Officer John Connors said: "Given the life cycle of where Office is, that's a darn good performance by our sales force." 

 Mr. Connors also left his guidance for revenue and earnings for all of fiscal-year 2001 unchanged from his statements last month, though he remained somewhat guarded about the future for PC sales growth. Microsoft did warn analysts that profit for its fiscal third quarter would range from 42 cents to 43 cents, down a penny or two from the 44 cents that had been estimated by analysts, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Overall, for the fiscal second quarter that ended Dec. 31, Microsoft posted net income of $2.62 billion, or 47 cents a diluted share, up about 7% from last year's $2.44 billion, or 44 cents a share, and matching analysts' consensus as tallied by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Revenue, boosted by solid sales of the new Windows 2000 operating system on PC desktops and more-powerful server computers, came in at $6.59 billion, up about 8% from $6.11 billion last year. 

 In December, Microsoft warned that revenue would likely come in about 5% to 6% below analysts' expectations at that time, between $6.4 billion and $6.5 billion. 

 "I think there will be a sense of relief that there was no incremental bad news," said Rick Sherlund, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co. The quarter was "not quite as bad as preannounced," he noted, and had good growth in server software, which helps power business Web sites, e-mail systems and internal networks. 

 Prior to the earnings announcement, Microsoft's shares were up $2.56 to $55.50 in 4 p.m. trading Friday on the Nasdaq Stock Market. They jumped in after-hours trading and were changing hands at $59.19. 

 The decline in Office sales, in particular, wasn't as bad as it could have been. Before the announcement, Drew Brosseau, an analyst at SG Cowen Securities, had thought sales could decline as much as 11% -- though he noted he made that prediction only after Microsoft issued its profit warning last month. 

 Office remains a nagging business conundrum for Microsoft, mainly because the product is already so widely used. That means it is tough to sell new copies, even when upgraded versions come along, Mr. Brosseau said. Sluggish Office sales, in fact, were thought to be a major cause of Microsoft's surprising earnings warning last month, the first such warning for the company in more than 10 years. Office sales were nearly a third of Microsoft's overall revenue last year. 

 Mr. Brosseau said that at a recent briefing, Microsoft engineers showed him all the "whiz-bang" features of the newest Office version, called Office 10, due out later this year. Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates also showed off an early version of the software at the Comdex computer trade show in Las Vegas in November. 

 Still, "It struck me like most other versions of Office: There were nice things in there, but nothing that made me want to jump up and get the next version," Mr. Brosseau said. What's more, the new product "is only a temporary fix to a long-term problem, which is that everybody's already got one." 

 Mr. Sherlund agreed. "I'm not sure we should look to Office 10 to be the cavalry coming to the rescue," he said. 

 Microsoft officials continue to tout Office 10, however, and its new features such as speech recognition and "smart tags," which allow people to quickly jump from one Office program to another, and even to some data on the Internet. 

 "It's a great product," said Microsoft Chief Executive Steve Ballmer. Some previous Office versions weren't as compelling, he said, adding that he would recommend users switch to Office 10 "without the slightest reservation." 

 More interesting to investors in the most-recent quarter was Microsoft's progress in selling server software to big businesses. Revenue from so-called enterprise software and services rose 21% from last year, with server applications -- including the SQL Server database and popular Exchange server, which powers the Outlook e-mail and calendar program -- rising 26%. 

Document awsj000020010710dx1m00298




 International News 
 Home Depot Issues Warning for Earnings --- Big Retailer Blames Shortfall on U.S. Economy 

 By Chad Terhune 
Staff Reporter
585 words
22 January 2001
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 ATLANTA -- Home Depot Inc., facing its first quarterly earnings decline in 15 years, said fourth-quarter earnings will fall short of year-earlier levels because of a tough U.S. economy. 

 The profit warning from the largest home-improvement retailer in the U.S. reinforced how dramatically consumer confidence and spending have plunged in recent months. The company's outlook remains lackluster until further interest-rate cuts or other catalysts put consumers back in a buying mood. 

 Bob Nardelli, Home Depot's president and chief executive since December, said same-store sales have been progressively worsening in the fourth quarter, culminating in a sales decrease this month from a year ago. Overall, he said fourth-quarter sales should be flat. He blamed the weaker sales on a combination of consumers' stock-market losses, record cold weather in the midwestern U.S., rising energy costs and mounting consumer debt. Depressed prices for lumber and other building materials also have been a drag on earnings for several quarters. 

 "We expect that many of the same economic factors affecting sales in the current quarter will persist in the first half of fiscal 2001, arguing for a cautious near-term outlook," Mr. Nardelli told analysts and investors. "If (interest) rate cuts come, it will take a while for those to trickle down." 

 In October, Home Depot issued a profit warning for its third and fourth quarters, citing the economic slowdown. At the time, it still expected fourth quarter earnings to increase to 26 cents a share from 25 cents a year earlier. That profit warning sent Home Depot shares down 28%. 

 On Friday, Home Depot said it expects net income in the fourth quarter, ended Jan. 28, to slide 20% to about 20 cents a share from a year ago. That is below the consensus estimate of 24 cents a share from 24 analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. A year earlier, Home Depot had net income of $578 million, or 25 cents a share, on sales of $9.2 billion. Taking the revision into account, earnings in the latest year are expected to be $1.10 a share compared to $1 a year earlier. 

 The latest profit warning followed earlier warnings from rival Lowe's Cos. and building-materials manufacturers such as Masco Corp. due to slower sales. 

 "Home Depot is a good indicator for a consumer recession," said Peter Caruso, an analyst at Merrill Lynch Global Securities. "This indicates the (U.S.) Federal Reserve better start cutting rates fast and furious. This is for the Fed to fix, not Mr. Nardelli." 

 Home Depot shares fell 7.3%, or $3.25, to $41 in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange at 4 p.m. Friday. The profit warning dragged down other retail stocks and helped send the Dow Jones Industrial Average, of which Home Depot is a component, down more than 90 points. 

 The last time Home Depot's net income fell was the fourth quarter of 1985. It was a young company then, with only about 50 stores. Today, it has 1,020 stores in the U.S. and an additional 74 in Canada and South America. Some on Wall Street suggest Home Depot is experiencing the same growing pains Wal-Mart Stores Inc., of Bentonville, Arkansas, ran into about four years ago when its growth rate began to slow due to size. 

Document awsj000020010710dx1m0028y




 Technology 
 Unisys' Quarterly Profit Meets Lowered Forecast ---- Slowing Economy May Affect Current Period 

 By William M. Bulkeley 
Staff Reporter
390 words
22 January 2001
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
N2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Unisys Corp. reported fourth-quarter results that met lowered expectations, but said a slowing economy is likely to cut current-quarter results below forecasts. 

 The outlook contrasted with competitor International Business Machines Corp.'s optimistic view for the current year, and depressed Unisys stock, which fell a further 25 cents to $15 in New York Stock Exchange trading Friday. 

 Unisys said fourth-quarter profit before a one-time restructuring charge fell 11% to $128.6 million, or 41 cents a diluted share, from net income of $144.4 million, or 46 cents a share. The results were in line with a Unisys warning in early December of lower earnings. Including a $89.5 million restructuring charge, Unisys net was $39.1 million, or 12 cents a share, down 73%. 

 Revenue fell 1.6% to $1.93 billion from $1.96 billion, partly due to a 4% decline from currency conversion. 

 As for the current quarter, Unisys said it expects earnings to be 20 cents to 25 cents a share, down from $106.5 million, or 34 cents a share, a year ago, and less than the consensus estimate of 28 cents as reported by First Call/Thomson Financial. Due to the weakened first-quarter outlook, Unisys forecast full-year earnings of $1.25 to $1.35 a share. Analysts had expected 2001 earnings of $1.35 a share. 

 Unisys said that it expects 2001 revenue growth "to be at the low end of our 8% to 12% range" predicted in December. The growth forecast excludes commodity hardware products that Unisys won't be selling any more, as well as its federal systems group, which Unisys is considering selling. 

 Gary Helmig, an analyst with Wit Soundview Financial, said, "They have to get the revenue story going. They've had five quarters of revenue decline, and it's getting a little wearying." 

 Unisys of Blue Bell, Pennsylvania, said sales of its large computer systems rose 12% from a weak year ago, aided by a new line of mainframes that use Intel Corp. microprocessors. Unisys also said that Hitachi Ltd. will resell the systems, mainly in Japan. Hitachi joins Dell Computer Corp, and Compaq Computer Corp. among others as resellers of the Unisys system. 

Document awsj000020010710dx1m0028s




 Wall St Week Ahead - Stocks keep humming a happy tune. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
914 words
21 January 2001
16:53
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 21 (Reuters) - Wall Street investors seem to have shaken the profit-warning blues and are expected to remain chin-up this week, giving stocks a boost, as the corporate earnings season revs up to full-speed. 

 Corporate America has already largely confessed to the sins of weaker profits committed before the backdrop of slowing growth, and Wall Street appears ready to forgive and forget - at least for now. 

 "Most of the bad news is already in most of these stock prices," Peter Gottlieb, portfolio manager at First Albany Asset Management, said. 

 The tap opens on the flood of earnings reports this week - with a substantial batch of blue-chip companies set to issue their quarterly results - and analysts say investors will be largely able to shrug off any negative surprises. 

 Unlike recent reporting periods, this one has seen the damage from profit concerns at individual companies largely contained instead of spilling across sectors and weighing on the broader market, analysts said. 

 There could even be some good news - particularly from the slew of pharmaceutical companies expected to issue statements about their profits, as well as many U.S. oil companies, which saw their profits get a boost from sky-high oil and natural gas prices. 

 Among the Dow's 30 stocks, drug giants Johnson & Johnson and Merck & Co., oil heavyweight Exxon Mobil, and SBC Communications, the nation's No. 2 local phone company, are next-at-bat on the earnings roster. 

 Traders will be closely watching for results from the high-tech world, including high-speed communications equipment makers Corning Inc. and JDS Uniphase. 

 TECH STOCKS STRIKE BACK 

 Last week, technology stocks got a shot in the arm after computer giant International Business Machines painted a rosy outlook for the quarters ahead. 

 Fears about high-tech sector's profit outlook may have been a bit overblown, John Forelli, portfolio manager at Independence Investment Associates said in a research report. 

 "The downward earnings revisions in the tech sector have bottomed out, and with that, so have stock prices," Forelli said. "The Nasdaq is ready for action." 

 Stocks ended last week - shortened to four days with the stock market closed on Monday for Martin Luther King Jr. Day - with modest gains. 

 Technology stocks lead the way, pushing the Nasdaq up 5.5 percent for the week and giving the tech-laden index a 12 percent increase year-to-date. 

 Nevertheless, the market's rosier mood comes on the heels of one of the worst seasons for corporate confessions ever, with a record 687 companies warning they would miss analysts' quarterly earnings forecasts, according to market tracker First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 That number is 91 percent above the 359 warnings issued over the same period last year and could go even higher, First Call research director Chuck Hill said, adding that it remains to be seen whether earnings can make a comeback in the second half of this year as many analysts are predicting. 

 "If, in fact, the second quarter does turn out to be the bottom, and we sense that in the next few weeks, then I think the (stock market) rally that's under way is probably the start of a sustainable up-market," Hill said. 

 The calendar of economic data is light next week, but financial markets will be keeping their eyes peeled for federal budget, wage inflation, and durable goods figures as they ponder what the Fed's next move will be. 

 On Thursday morning, the government issues its Employment Cost Index (ECI) for the fourth quarter of last year. The ECI measures inflation in wages, the threat of which has been a thorn in the Fed's side amid tight labor market conditions. 

 U.S. economists on average predicted ECI rose 1.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2000, up from 0.9 percent gain in the previous quarter, according to a Reuters survey. 

 The government is also expected to issue figures on orders for durable goods - things like refrigerators and washing machines - last month. Economists anticipate a 1.7 percent drop in December orders following November's 2.5 percent gain. 

 The numbers could give clues to whether consumer spending - one of the main drivers behind the U.S. economy's blockbuster decade-long economic expansion - has slowed. 

 Monday afternoon, Wall Street gets a look at the Federal budget for December, which economists on average expected to be up $33.29 billion vs. November's $23.69 billion drop. 

 EYES ON THE FEDERAL RESERVE 

 There could be a bit of nail-biting on Wall Street on Thursday when Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan testifies before the Senate Budget Committee. Although fiscal issues will be the topic of discussion, traders will be watching for any hints of the Fed's next decision on interest rates. 

 The Fed's next policy-setting meeting is scheduled for Jan. 30-31, and the U.S. central bank is widely expected to lower interest rates by at least a quarter of a percentage point to help pep up business activity. Earlier this month, the Fed surprised the financial markets with a 50 basis-point cut. 

 "People are looking for them to send a signal that they are easing," said First Albany's Gottlieb. "The biggest worry is not inflation but is recession, and a Fed (interest rate) cut would certainly help to at least mitigate those concerns." 

Document lba0000020010712dx1l00jb6




 SMARTMONEY.COM: Buying Into Bad News 

 By Igor Greenwald 
844 words
20 January 2001
00:49
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Ah, earnings season: the soft flutter of the whisper numbers, the jargon-laden equivocations of the CFOs, the counterintuitive surges of enthusiasm for companies that miss their own lowered targets. 

 Whatever works. For the first time in seven tries, the Dow and the Nasdaq managed to share a winning week. This despite the fact that the 143 Standard & Poor's 500 companies reporting fourth-quarter results to date have on average managed to come up 1.8% short of analyst estimates and 3.1% short of their earnings for the same quarter a year ago, according to First Call Research Director Chuck Hill. 

 Normally, S&P 500 earnings tend to come in 3% above estimates. And while Hill expects the current numbers to improve over the next few weeks, he offers little hope they will reach that benchmark. 

 That said, visibility remains so limited (to borrow a phrase from those CFOs) that a blind man could offer guidance, if he knew how to play the expectations game. 

 Consider the cases of two big companies, both scheduled to report before Wednesday's open. One is a debt-ridden Dow dog recently forced to drastically slash dividends in an attempt to cope with stagnating revenues. Its stock is up nearly 40% this year. The other is an industry leader expected to post a 76% year-over-year increase in quarterly profits. Its shares are down 10.9% since the Fed rate cut. 

 An otherwise reasonable investor might conclude that AT&T (T) can't help but exceed the heavily discounted expectations, while dreading Exxon-Mobil's (XOM) report on the grounds that its forward outlook can't possibly live up to the oil patch's giddy recent history. 

 It's a sort of a parallel universe where a downturn actually helps cyclicals on rate-cut hopes, while undermining defensive plays like oil and pharma. If you live there, beware. The upcoming week promises reports from many of Exxon-Mobil's equally flush competitors, as well as lucrative drug giants such as Pfizer (PFE), which will post its strong results Monday morning. 

 Wash down those pills with a swig of soda: Coke bottler Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE) reports Tuesday morning, followed three days later by Coca-Cola (KO) itself. The not-so-secret formula is for the bottler to help make its part-owner and main supplier look all the better. Coca-Cola Enterprises has already issued the soft-drink industry's sole profit warning for the quarter, while Coke should post year-on-year earnings-per-share growth of better than 25% in the latest quarter. 

 And just as Coke might benefit if unemployed dot-comers are forced to give up their $2.50 bottles of organic apricot juice spiced with ginseng, McDonald's (MCD) stands to gain from cutbacks in consumer spending at fancier eateries. The fast-food franchiser is due to deliver a relatively weak quarterly report on Wednesday morning, offset by an optimistic outlook staked partly on the upcoming pork-laden New Tastes Menu. Bacon's triumph over frou-frou health foods also happens to be an underappreciated indicator of a Nasdaq bottom. 

 Speaking of the tech sector, on deck next week are Bell South (BLS), Lucent (LU), Texas Instruments (TXN), Corning (GLW), Exodus Communications (EXDS), Veritas (VRTS), JDS Uniphase (JDSU), SBC Communications (SBC), Seibel Systems (SEBL), Ericsson (ERICY), Foundry Networks (FDRY) and Kulicke & Soffa (KLIC), among others. 

 Beyond the techs, Disney (DIS) and Viacom (VIA.B) are expected to deliver mediocre results Wednesday morning. Both companies are suffering through a big slump in television advertising and unflattering comparisons with media leader AOL Time Warner (AOL). On the plus side, Viacom's CBS shows off the Super Bowl and Survivor 2 a week from Sunday. Mickey Mouse Inc. responds as it always does to any challenge, by thrusting Regis into the living rooms of its ABC network's graying audience. 

 Your TV entertainment options this weekend are notably less abundant, consisting as they do of has-been crooners set to perform at the inaugural balls in Washington. But George W. Bush's accession should eventually be music to the ears of major defense contractors also due to report earnings next week. The Republican administration might also help the timber and paper producers, many of whom also report next week, and must be hoping for a swift reversal of wide-ranging logging exclusions ordered by President Clinton in recent months. 

 Watch out too for Thursday's testimony by Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan before the Senate Budget Committee. The more concerned he sounds and looks, the greater the perceived odds of another half-point interest-rate cut the following week, and the perkier the stock market. If, on the other hand, Greenspan should come off as unduly optimistic, those oil and drug stocks should start looking real attractive real fast. 

 For more information and analysis of companies and mutual funds, visit SmartMoney.com at http://www.smartmoney.com/

Document dj00000020010711dx1k026fy




 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 BUSINESS DIGEST 

654 words
20 January 2001
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 1, Column 1
English
(c) 2001 New York Times Company

 Power Crisis in California Is Taking a Financial Toll 

 The power crisis in California is beginning to take its toll on businesses, workers and consumers. This week alone, the cost reached $1.7 billion in lost wages, sales and productivity, according to the rough estimate of Jack Kyser, chief economist at the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation. 

 But while rolling blackouts and the immediate prospect of bankrupt utilities are uppermost in the minds of Californians, the bigger economic concern is longer term. No new power plants are expected to come online for at least two years, and demand is growing at a steady pace. [Page A1.] 

 Back-to-Back Nasdaq Improvement 

 For the first time since September, the Nasdaq composite index finished its second consecutive winning week. The Nasdaq rose 1.89 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,770.38, on the strength of computer-related shares. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 90.69 points, or 0.9 percent, to 10,587.59, led down by a profit warning from Home Depot. And the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 5.43 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,342.54. [C3.] 

 Trade Deficit Narrowed in November 

 The United States trade deficit narrowed 1.7 percent, to $33 billion, in November as imports of oil, autos and computers fell, the Commerce Department reported. It was the first back-to-back decline in more than three years. [C3.] 

 Aetna Proposal to Settle Lawsuits 

 In a development that may provide a formula to help settle dozens of lawsuits against Aetna and other managed care insurers, Aetna is seriously considering nonmonetary ways of compensating plaintiffs. [C2.] 

 S.E.C. Rebukes KPMG on Violation 

 The Securities and Exchange Commission issued a cease-and-desist order against KPMG, the large accounting firm, after concluding that the firm had violated securities laws that required it to be independent from companies it audited. [C2.] 

 Class Action Against eBay Dropped 

 EBay, the online auction service, has won dismissal of a class-action lawsuit that asserted that the company had a responsibility to ensure the authenticity of the items sold through its Web site. Judge Linda B. Quinn of Superior Court in San Diego County, Calif., dismissed a case on Thursday in which buyers sued over eBay auctions for autographed sports memorabilia later found to be fake. [C14.] 

 Daimler Official in Mitsubishi Post 

 After the Mitsubishi Motors board voted to accept Rolf Eckrodt, left, into his new position as chief operating officer, Takashi Sonobe, president of Mitsubishi, vowed that his company would go ahead with a joint venture with Volvo. That deal would make Mitsubishi and DaimlerChrysler, where Mr. Eckrodt came from, competitors in the market for commercial vehicles in Europe. [C2.] 

 Sotheby's Makes Case for Coupons 

 Sotheby's argued in court papers that issuing $100 million in coupons as part of a $512 million lawsuit settlement would not shortchange thousands of customers who have contended that they were defrauded by illegal collusion between the company and its archrival auction house, Christie's. [C2.] 

 Bankruptcy Filings Climb in Japan 

 Bankruptcies in Japan climbed last month to the second-highest level since the collapse of the bubble economy in 1989. Given the bleak outlook for Japan's economy and financial system, insolvency is likely to continue. [C2.] 

 Lucent Seeks Buyers for Two Plants 

 Lucent Technologies said it planned to seek buyers for two of its four factories in the United States in the next six months and to cut costs by contracting out manufacturing. [C3.] 

 Photo Chart: ''YESTERDAY'' Dow industrials -- 10,587.59 down 90.69 Nasdaq composite -- 2,770.38 up 1.89 10-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.16% up 0.06 The euro -- $0.9341 down 0.0101 The dollar -- 117.42 yen down 0.71 Graph tracks the Nasdaq Composite daily closes in January. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

Document nytf000020010712dx1k003qr




 Microsoft's gentle profit gain. 

111 words
20 January 2001
Hobart Mercury
MRCURY
29
English
(c) 2001 Davies Brothers Limited

 MICROSOFT yesterday announced a profit in its most recent quarter of $4.76 billion, a 7.7% gain from the same period a year ago. 

 The software giant's earnings per share of US47 cents were in line with most forecasts, but reflected a rare profit warning from the company late last year. 

 Microsoft said the outlook for the next few months may be hurt by deteriorating economic conditions. 

 It reported revenues of $11.95 billion for the three months to December 30, but predicted the next quarter could decline to $11.42 billion to $11.6 billion. Earnings per share may decline to US42-43c. 

Document mrcury0020010713dx1k00194




 Business; Financial Desk 
 O.C. BUSINESS PLUS  Profit  Report Sends ICN Stock Down 16% Pharmaceuticals: The $4.44 drop follows Costa Mesa drug maker's  warning  of lower-than-expected earnings. 

From Bloomberg News
339 words
20 January 2001
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Orange County Edition
C-2
English
 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company 

 ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc.'s shares tumbled Friday after the Costa Mesa drug company said 2000 earnings would be less than expected because of increased costs and slowing sales of its biggest product, the ribavirin hepatitis treatment. 

 The company's stock fell $4.44, or 16%, to $23.44 on the New York Stock Exchange. Earlier in the session, the shares traded as low as $20.69. 

 ICN said it expects earnings per share in 2000 to range from $1.25 to $1.30. Analysts had estimated earnings of $1.68 a share for the year, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 The company said royalties it earned during the year from its partner, Schering-Plough Corp., on sales of ribavirin are expected to range from $150 million to $155 million, an increase of more than 40% from 1999 royalties. Analysts, though, had expected $175 million. 

 ICN said it expects 2001 royalties of $180 million to $190 million. 

 Schering-Plough sells a combination of ribavirin and Intron A called Rebetron in the U.S. It is now seeking U.S. regulatory approval of a new combination using improved versions of the two drugs. 

 ICN has attributed the decline in ribavirin sales to doctors' reluctance to prescribe Rebetron as they await approval of the improved version. 

 Although analysts were aware of this reluctance to prescribe the drug, "it appears to be more serious than I thought," Sutro & Co. analyst Larry Smith said. 

 ICN said its spending on research and development increased 55% to $17 million in 2000 from $11 million a year earlier. The company said it expects R&D spending to more than double to $45 million this year as it expands its scientific staff and research facilities. 

 The company expects to release full financial results the first week of March. 

Document latm000020010712dx1k00533




 Technology Journal: AMD's Net Rises but Misses Target --- Chip Maker's Sales Grow Less Than Expected as Demand for PCs Slows --- Company Gained Market Share From Rival Intel 

 By Molly Williams and Rebecca Buckman 
Staff Reporter
475 words
19 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
22
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. reported lower-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings, hurt by a steep drop in demand in what is usually the strongest selling season for personal computers. 

 The Sunnyvale, California, chip maker said net income surged to $178 million (190.5 million euros), or 53 cents a diluted share, from $65 million, or 21 cents, a year earlier. Sales rose 22% to $1.18 billion from $968 million a year earlier. 

 AMD's improvement over the prior year was significant, as the company gained market share over rival Intel Corp. Indeed, Chief Executive W.J. Sanders III characterized 2000 as the best year in the company's history. 

 Yet the quarter's results came in below the numbers AMD officials had estimated last month when the company warned that sales and earnings would be hit by slow PC sales and a lackluster holiday selling season. After the warning, a consensus of analysts projected profit of 55 cents a share and sales of $1.2 billion, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 "We had a pretty low revenue number, and they came in $15 million below that, and they missed our earnings by a penny," said Drew Peck, an analyst with SG Cowen Securities in Boston, Massachusetts. But "in this environment, people are still going to breathe a sigh of relief." 

 AMD and Intel are both struggling with slowing sales of PCs as companies and consumers cut back spending in the face of a slowing economy. Intel Tuesday reported fourth-quarter results that met lowered expectations, but was cautious about the first quarter. 

 AMD said Wednesday that it expects first-quarter sales will be up over last year, but no better than flat compared with the just-ended quarter. Sales for this year could grow as much as 15%, the company said, which would lead to 2001 profit of $2 a share. 

 Mr. Peck, however, called those projections "pretty aggressive," saying he expects "a price war of unbelievable proportions" in the industry. 

 But on a conference call with analysts and reporters, Mr. Sanders said, "we don't see as grim an outlook . . . we do not see a price war." 

 Company officials said the blended, average selling price for its microprocessors in the quarter was around $81, but should be in the range of $90 to $100 this year. 

 AMD held its market share in the quarter at about 17%, as Intel lost a small amount of market share in the quarter, according to Mercury Re-search. Intel accounted for about 81.7% of the market, down slightly from the 81.9% it had in the third quarter. 

Document wsje000020010713dx1j001a3


 Today's complete oil and gas news briefing 

292 words
19 January 2001
The Oil Daily
TOILDA
English
(c) 2001 Content and programming. CNBC/Dow Jones Business Video, a division of CNBC/Dow Jones Desktop Video, LLC.

 Today's complete oil and gas news briefing 

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - In today's Oil Daily ... 

 Abraham, Norton Get Different Receptions 

 Anderson Offers US$550 Million for Numac 

 Oil-Producing Neighbors Fear Ripples From Conflict in Congo 

 AEC, Burlington Make Cross-Border Deals 

 Crude Prices Rise on Hawkish Bush Comments, Upcoming Expiration 

 Grand Jury Indicts 3 for Falsifying Fuel Specs in RFG Scandal 

 Triton Shares Plunge On Profit Warning, Write-Down of Assets 

 Anadarko to Spend $535 Million This Year To Expand Bossier Gas Play in East Texas 

 Service Firms Post Big Fourth-Quarter Profits 

 Valero Cuts RFG Output Due to Poor Margins 

 Power Generators, Officials Continue Talks As California Energy Crisis Spurs Lawsuits 

 Exxon Appeals Alabama Verdict 

 Venezuela Backs New Opec Basket 

 Crown Ends 5-Year Labor Fight 

 Texaco Sets $4.5 Billion Budget 

 TNK, Sidanko Settle Dispute 

 Tibet Supporters Plan BP Action 

 Comstock Sets 2001 Budget 

 Imperial Oil Beats Expectations 

 Burlington Earnings Shoot Up 

 Suncor Overcomes Hedging Losses 

 Kinder Morgan Sees Earnings Rise 

 Firms Enter New Joint Venture 

 Americomm Reports Well Success 

 North Sea Output Sets Record 

 BP Sets Malaysian Investment 

 Nazarbayev Urges Okioc to Choose 

 Woodside Sales More Than Double 

 Petrobras Changes Funding Plans 

 Petrobras Plans Rio Cleanup 

 Ecuador Expects Exports to Rise 

 Lawmakers Seek ANS Export Ban 

 FPL Energy Starts on Plant 

 Opec Cut Worries IEA 

 Gasoline Prices Edge Upward 

 Valero to Expand Capacity 2.5% 

 Lehman Downgrades Oil Shares 

 Pinnacle West Names 2 

 McBride Leaves Cabot 

 PG&E Appoints Senior VP 

 Shenandoah Elects Keener 

 OGE Board Names Williams 

 Advanced Energy Names 2 

 40 Years Ago Today in The Oil Daily 

 Daily Oil & Gas Price Review 

 Stock Market Scorecard 

 Earnings Announcements 

 Dividends Declared 

 SEC Filings 

 API Weekly Statistics 

 EIA Weekly Statistics 

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --. 

Document toilda0020010715dx1j000j4




 Techs drive U.S. stocks in Europe, Wall St seen up. 

547 words
19 January 2001
12:11
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Jan 19 (Reuters) - U.S. technology shares sprang forward in Europe on Friday, boosted by earnings in the sector overnight and a feeling that the Nasdaq's Thursday rise might be heralding the end of the months-long beating for the sector. 

 Figures late on Thursday from software giant Microsoft , Nortel Networks Corp and Sun Microsystems Inc were met with enthusiasm as targets were broadly hit and accompanying comments were either reassuring or held no unpleasant shocks. 

 Microsoft traded at $59, beating the $57-1/4 seen after the end of regular trading in the United States. Sun Micro was quoted in Europe at $35, ahead of the $34-7/8 close. Other techs saw Intel climb a dollar to $33-1/4. 

 "We're being bid higher on the back of the set of earnings we had yesterday and a continuing rally in the high techs," said one trader, predicting another climb for Wall Street on Friday after solid gains in U.S. stock index futures. 

 By the late European morning the Nasdaq March futures contract was up 65 points to 2,759.5, while the corresponding Dow future stood 65 points up at 10,810. 

 The tech-heavy Nasdaq index scored a five-week high on Wall Street on Thursday, prompting some to wonder whether the index is flattening out and ready to climb further after last year's 39 percent power dive. 

 "It looks like Nasdaq might have broken the downtrend which goes back to summer last year, that's what the screens seem to be telling us," said a London share trader. 

 "The chartists say the Nasdaq has a 25-percent increase in it now. I am not a chartist but it would suit me to believe it," said another. 

 Others sounded a more cautious note, despite Thursday's surprisingly weak regional manufacturing data from the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, which appeared to strengthen the case for an aggressive rate cut, possibly at the end-January Federal Reserve meeting. 

 "Who knows if we've reached the bottom? All you need is for one big bell-wether stock to come out with some lower-than-expected earnings or a profit warning and that would send the whole thing down again," said a trader. 

 "The closer we get to the January 30 Fed meeting date, the more the speculation will rise as to what they'll do to rates," he added. 

 Chemicals shares moved against the overall trend following warnings from Union Carbide and Hercules Inc . Union Carbide fell $1-1/4 to $46-1/2 after saying it would post a larger-than-expected fourth-quarter loss because of higher energy and raw material costs. 

 Hercules, which warned about the impact of the strong dollar and slowing demand in key markets on the fourth quarter, dipped $1/2 to $16-7/8. 

 Today's U.S. data, including consumer sentiment estimates from the University of Michigan and the November reading on international trade, will be closely monitored. 

 "Michigan sentiment is important. It is in the northern part of the rustbelt. It does take in the car businesses and people will want to have a good look at it," a trader said. 

Document lba0000020010712dx1j01dwe




 UPDATE 4-Microsoft profits on target but warns on Q3. 

 By Scott Hillis 
1,030 words
19 January 2001
00:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 SEATTLE, Jan 18 (Reuters) - Microsoft Corp. said on Thursday its quarterly profits were virtually unchanged from a year ago, in line with lowered forecasts, but the software giant warned that sluggish computer sales and corporate technology buying would hit earnings in its current quarter. 

 Microsoft, which makes the Windows operating system found on most personal computers, said net profits for its fiscal second quarter ended Dec. 31 were $2.62 billion, or 47 cents a share. 

 That was up slightly from $2.44 billion, or 47 cents a share, a year earlier. The year-ago figure excluded a one-time charge of 3 cents a share. 

 Analysts had cut their forecasts for the quarter to an average 47 cents a share, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial, after the company issued a rare profit warning last month amid a downturn in PC sales. 

 The Redmond, Wash.-based company sounded a further cautious note for its current third quarter, saying profits would likely come in at 42 to 43 cents a share, just below the consensus Wall Street forecast of 44 cents. It reported 43 cents a share a year earlier. 

 It repeated that earnings for the full fiscal year, which ends on June 30, are expected to be in the range of $1.80 to $1.82. 

 "Our biggest concern would be PC demand, and then secondly the level of increase in technology spending by corporations," Chief Financial Officer John Connors told Reuters in an interview after the announcement. 

 Microsoft is "looking for the fiscal year 2001 PC unit growth rate to be in the low teens, probably 10 percent at best," Connors said. Microsoft's fiscal year runs from July 1 through June 30. 

 NO SKELETONS IN THE CLOSET 

 But investors appeared to shrug off the warning, pushing Microsoft stock up to $58-5/8 in after-hours trading on Instinet. That followed a gain of $2-9/16, or 4.8 percent, on the Nasdaq before the news. 

 Microsoft stock has tumbled from a high of $116-1/16 a year ago amid fears over its antitrust battle with the U.S. government and technology industry woes. 

 "I think people are going through and not seeing any skeletons in the closet," Scott McAdams, president of Seattle-based brokerage McAdams Wright Ragen said of the after-hours rise. "I was pleasantly surprised." 

 "If there is a negative, it's that their guidance is probably on the low end of what people were looking for. My guess is there's some conservatism in there, but who knows, it may be a lousy quarter," McAdams said. 

 "But they kept their guidance for the full year, so whatever they lose this quarter they think they'll make up in the next," he added. 

 Analysts said they were encouraged by some signs of health, such as a sharp rise in unearned revenue that points to bigger revenues down the road, and quarterly revenues that beat the lowered forecast. 

 Revenues were $6.59 billion, up 8 percent from the $6.11 billion a year earlier, topping the forecast of $6.4 billion to $6.5 billion range, due to what Connors said was a year-end sprint by sales staff. 

 "In general our sales organization did a good job closing December, a little better than we had anticipated," Connors said in the interview. 

 STRONG WINDOWS 

 Connors said Windows 2000 - the Microsoft flagship - and other powerful software for businesses offset slowdowns in consumer PCs and desktop applications, which include the Office suite of programs that is Microsoft's second-biggest money spinner. 

 Sales of Windows 2000 and its predecessor Windows NT rose 39 percent from a year earlier, with the more lucrative server product that powers corporate machines rising 20 percent, Connors said. 

 "We were very, very pleased with the momentum we have in the Windows business," Connors said, without giving absolute sales figures for Windows 2000. 

 On the small but fast-growing consumer side, the MSN Internet access service added half a million subscribers in the quarter to hit 4 million total. 

 But Connors added that the MSN family of Web sites, which includes the MSN.com portal, CarPoint automobile buying service and MoneyCentral personal finance site, would feel the effects of a recent downturn in advertising spending. 

 "We continue to be positive going forward, but it's going to be a more challenging market in general for advertising, whether that's Internet or traditional media, and we would be impacted by that," Connors said. 

 Connors also said the consumer business had lower profit margins than Microsoft's traditional software products, which would force the company to trim costs to offset the drag on gross margins. 

 "We're working very hard to evaluate where we can make trade-offs in expense growth rates to improve our profitability ... but not at the expense of long-term success," he said. 

 FINANCIAL MATTERS STING 

 Microsoft was also stung by some technical financial matters. 

 One regulatory change that requires companies to list the current value of complicated financial instruments called derivatives forced Microsoft to take a $446 million hit to its investment income. 

 "We don't try to predict the ongoing impact of this rule, and anticipate that some quarters will be positive and some quarters negative," Connors said. 

 Microsoft posted investment income of $751 million, down from $1.13 billion in its first quarter. Connors said investment income would continue to be about $800 million a quarter. 

 Microsoft also said it had repurchased about 22.8 million shares of stock worth about $1.5 billion. 

 The company last year launched a new repurchase plan to help keep a lid on the number of outstanding shares and offset stock options it gives many of its 40,000 employees. 

 Connors said Microsoft was also forced to buy its own stock under a complicated hedging scheme that has hurt the company as the stock price falls. 

 But the company's legendary coffers continued to swell, with its cash and short-term investments climbing to nearly $26.9 billion, up $3 billion from six months earlier. 

Document lba0000020010712dx1j01cy6




 UPDATE 1-ADC Telecom falls sharply on  profit warning . 

452 words
19 January 2001
22:04
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 19 (Reuters) - ADC Telecommunications Inc. shares ended down 27 percent on Friday after the telecommunications gear maker warned its earnings would be hurt by slowing demand in a softening economy. 

 The Minneapolis company also said it expects to name a successor to its retiring chairman and chief executive officer, William Cadogan, by the time it announces its first-quarter earnings next month. 

 ADC shares sank $5-12/16 to close at $15-9/16 on record volume of 76.5 million shares. It was the fifth most heavily traded company on Nasdaq. Earlier ADC shares fell to $14-15/16, its lowest level since December 1999. 

 Late Thursday ADC said it now sees sales for the first quarter of $800 million, up from $594 million a year ago but below the consensus expectation of $881.77 million, according to a First Call/Thomson Financial survey of 12 analysts. It also said its earnings this year should rise by 15 percent from 2000, not the 25 to 30 percent previously expected. 

 The seller of fiber optic, networking equipment and software to carriers for high-speed Internet, data, video and voice services is just the latest equipment maker to be affected by lower carrier spending projections. 

 Brokerages including SG Cowen, ABN Amro and Josephthal & Co. cut their investment recommendations on ADC following the profit warning. 

 "Although we had lowered our EPS (earnings per share) estimates on Jan. 12 due to our concern about the economic slowdown, apparently conditions at ADCT were even softer than we had imagined," wrote Josephthal analyst Lawrence Harris. Harris cut his 2001 earnings estimate to 57 cents from 66 cents per share. 

 "The combination of management in transition and weaker market conditions causes us to be less supportive of ADCT at this time," ABN Amro analyst Kenneth Leon said in a report. He downgraded ADC to hold from buy on Friday. 

 During a conference call Friday morning, Cadogan said his successor would be named before the company posts its first-quarter earnings, scheduled for Feb. 21. Cadogan, whose plans for retirement were announced last spring, will remain within the company for fiscal 2001 as an adviser. 

 ADC will record a charges for previously announced staff cuts during the first and second quarter, it said in the call. It also plans changes in some product lines. 

 Early this month ADC laid-off 400 workers, less than 2 percent of its workforce, at its troublesome systems integration unit. Analysts said more cuts could come. 

 Despite continuing difficulties in the systems integration operation, company officials said they still see solid growth in the wireline access, software and billing software units. 

Document lba0000020010712dx1j00irv




 WRAPUP-U.S. blue-chip stocks and bonds fall, oil above $32. 

1,011 words
19 January 2001
23:29
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 19 (Reuters) - U.S. blue-chip stocks fell on Friday, after a profit warning from big home-improvement retailer Home Depot Inc. and a big drop in consumer confidence that also pulled the rug out from under bonds. 

 The financial markets got a shock Friday morning from the University of Michigan's U.S. consumer sentiment index, which slid to 93.6 in January from 98.4 in December. Economists polled by Reuters had expected the index to rise to 99.0 for this preliminary reading. 

 Consumer confidence is a major influence on consumers' willingness to spend. It matters to the financial markets because consumer spending accounts for about two-thirds of gross domestic product growth. A big decline in consumer spending could help turn the slowdown in the U.S. economy into a recession, some investors and analysts fear. 

 The dollar slipped against Japan's yen, but rose sharply against the euro. 

 In New York, oil futures settled above $32 a barrel just two days after the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) approved a 5 percent cutback in oil production. The big jump in oil prices also dragged down bonds. 

 "The economy is in the process of continuing to slow and I think that took some of the starch and steam out of enthusiasm for owning equities," said Tom Sparico, managing director of equities at Bengal Partners. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 90.69 points, or 0.85 percent, to end at 10,587.59. For the week, the Dow was almost flat and is down 1.8 percent year to date, after a 6.2 percent drop in 2000. 

 Home Depot, which fell $3-1/4, or 7.3 percent, to close at $41, weighed on the Dow. The hardware superstore chain warned its earnings would suffer in the soft economy and it does not see any improvement in the first half of this year. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index slipped 5.42 points, or 0.40 percent, to 1,342.55. 

 Technology stocks, however, eked out a small gain after an initial surge on upbeat results from software giant Microsoft Corp., telecommunications equipment maker Nortel Networks Corp. and Internet auction site eBay Inc. 

 The tech-laden Nasdaq Composite Index finished the session almost unchanged, up 1.89 points, or 0.07 percent, at 2,770.38, after climbing more than 2 percent at the opening. The Nasdaq was up 5.5 percent for the week and up 12.1 percent for the year following last year's 39 percent plunge. 

 Microsoft, a Dow component and Nasdaq heavyweight, jumped $5-1/2 to $61 after the software maker met Wall Street's lowered expectations and said it was on track to meet its fiscal year goal. 

 Sun Microsystems Inc., down $4 at $30-7/8 in very heavy trading, kept a lid on Nasdaq's gain. Sun shares fell after the network computer company forecast sales for this year could be less than predicted. 

 Friday's "double witching" or the expiration of index futures and options exaggerated the market's price swings, traders said. 

 The Dow's tech components rose, including computer maker International Business Machines Corp., up $2-15/16 at $111-1/4, extending Thursday's gain on strong results. Among the Dow's other tech stocks, No. 1 computer chip maker Intel Corp. INTC.O rose $1-3/8 to $33-9/16. 

 The big plunge in the Michigan consumer sentiment index was "a reality shampoo" for the market, a trader said. Wall Street had thought the index would rise after the Federal Reserve's surprise interest-rate cut of 50 basis points on Jan. 3. 

 The Michigan survey's director noted in the report, sources said, that the sharp drop in the consumer sentiment index over the last two months was the third largest on record and that such sharp two-month slides had preceded the economic recessions of the early 1990s and the early 1980s. 

 Investors are hoping for better times ahead, amid expectations the Fed will cut interest rates some more to stem the economy's weakness. 

 The next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's policy-making body, is set for Jan. 30-31. 

 Meanwhile a 5.7 percent, or $1.74, jump in crude oil futures - owing mostly to dealers covering short positions ahead of the February contract expiration on Monday - weighed on 30-year bonds. 

 "There is some concern out there about inflation," said Peter Kretzmer, senior economist at Banc of America Securities. 

 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, February crude settled at $32.19 a barrel, up $1.74 from Thursday's close. 

 At the 5 p.m. EST (2200 GMT) New York settlement, the 30-year bond sank 1-8/32 to 109-30/32, wiping out a 21/32 gain on Thursday. Its yield, which moves inversely to price, rose to 5.56 percent from 5.48 percent at Thursday's close. 

 The benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note slid 15/32 at 104-9/32, yielding 5.18 percent, after climbing 1/2 point on Thursday and closing with a yield of 4.74 percent. 

 In late U.S. currency dealings, the dollar declined to 117.12 Japanese yen from 117.91 yen at Thursday's close. 

 In contrast, the euro fell to 93.34 cents at Friday's close, down more than 1 percent from 94.40 cents late Thursday. 

 In London, the FTSE-100 index of blue-chip companies edged down a mere 0.6 of a point, or 0.01 of a percent, to close at 6,209.3. In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225 average rose 115.20 points, or 0.83 percent, to finish at 13,989.12, for its sixth straight day of gains. Friday's surge in the Nikkei followed the Nasdaq's Thursday rally and gave the Nikkei its longest winning streak in 15 months. 

Document lba0000020010712dx1j00iol

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))   Date01/01/2001 to 01/31/2001   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectCorporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found217   Timestamp27 March 2018 10:33  
















•	  U.S.'S Home Depot warns on fourth-quarter profits. 
•	 UPDATE 2-Home Depot issues fourth-quarter  profit warning .
•	 ADC Telecom falls sharply on  profit warning .
•	  REPEAT-UPDATE 4-Microsoft profits on target but warns on Q3. 
•	 Unisys' 4th Period Hit Forecasts, But 1st-Quarter Outlook Is  Cut
•	  Microsoft Results Meet Lowered Forecast --- Fiscal Second-Quarter Profit Rose 7%, While Revenue Slightly Beat Expectations 
•	 Home Depot Issues  Profit Warning , Citing Weak Sales, Sluggish Economy
•	  MARKET TALK: Don't Count On WCOM Buyout, Analyst Says 
•	  WSJ.COM WRAP: Home Depot Cuts 4Q Outlook Amid Weak Sales 
•	  MARKET TALK: Luster May Be Coming Off Ariba, Commerce One 
•	  MARKET TALK: March Nasdaq Holds Near Key Area 
•	  MARKET TALK: Options Sentiment Barometer Turns Bearish 
•	  MARKET TALK: March S&Ps Get Bounce, But Still Acts Soft 
•	  MARKET TALK: Capital One Secondary Bucks Recent Trend 
•	  Tough Economy Hurts Home Depot's 4Q Profits 
•	 Microsoft Earnings In Line With Lower Quarterly Forecast
•	  IBM earnings help US stocks hold on to gains. 
•	  Microsoft and Sun don't disappoint: But bellwethers are less happy about health of economy 
•	  MARKET TALK: Lehman Cuts Home Depot FY02 EPS View 
•	  Home Depot Outlook -3: 'Tremendous Pressure' On 4Q Sales 
•	  BRIEFLY / TECHNOLOGY AltaVista Cuts More Jobs Amid Ad Slowdown 
•	  AMD's Surging Net Fails To Meet Expectations --- Drop in Demand Weighs on 4th-Quarter Results 
•	  BC-TECH-MICROSOFT-EARNS (UPDATE 3???ft sees lower-tha. 
•	  DaimlerChrysler outperforms DAX index, home rivals. 
•	  Microsoft Q2 earnings meet expectations. 
•	  DaimlerChrysler Chairman Pursues Vision of Global Auto Influence 
•	  AMD Net Surged in 4th Quarter, But Failed to Meet Expectations 
•	  Microsoft's Net Income Meets Lowered Estimates But Company Issues Guarded Outlook 
•	  Microsoft Hits Lowered 2Q Views And Backs FY01 Targets 
•	  Morgan, Fleet See Better '01 
•	 Big steel blues: Dofasco short again: Second  profit warning
•	  EARNINGS ROUNDUP GE Hits Forecasts With Double-Digit Growth 
•	 UPDATE 2-Enodis serves up  profit warning , shares hit.
•	  Expenses, Slow Mkt Drags J.P. Morgan Op Income Down 65% 
•	  NO U-TURN FOR THE STUTTGART JUGGERNAUT 
•	 Companies: Intershop Plans to  Cut  30% Of Its Work Force in the U.S. --- Company Also Intends to Streamline Operations
•	  UPDATE 1-Toronto stocks dip at open on profit-taking. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Toronto stocks end lower, earnings anxiety mounts. 
•	  U.S. railroads seen posting weak Q4 earnings. 
•	  United States 
•	  German Web Co. Cutting US Work Force 
•	  UPDATE 1-Toronto stocks rise in listless trading. 
•	  Intershop's US Job Cuts Not Enough To Fix Problems 
•	  Intershop to slash 30 pct of workforce in US 
•	  US tech firms likely to post dismal Dec-quarter results. 
•	 Stocks to be affected by US inactivity
•	  German Web Co. Cutting US Work Force 
•	  Daily Mail, London, Market Report 
•	 REGIONAL
•	  Gateway profits log off. 
•	  Gateway and HP suffer from bad economy 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-Goldman cuts Lands's End estimates. 
•	  UPDATE 3-Gateway Q4 net falls far short of forecasts. 
•	  British Bus Maker Blames Falling Profits on Lower Sales in North America 
•	 Business Brief -- LookSmart Ltd.: Firm Issues  Profit Warning  Due to Slowing Ad Growth
•	 TECH STOCKS SOAR, WHILE BLUE CHIPS DRAG
•	  BRIDGE UPDATE-COMPANY NEWS - Pasminco to be sued for third time. 
•	 Investors welcome Nortel's plan to  cut  jobs
•	 Prices slide on rate  cut  doubts.
•	  UPDATE 1-Playtex to miss earnigns estimates. 
•	  US Treasuries buoyed as stocks seen opening lower. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Gateway Q4 net falls far short of forecasts. 
•	  U.S. debt futures waver back and forth, watch stocks. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Playtex to miss earnings estimates. 
•	  March bond futures down sharply for third straight day. 
•	  U.S. Treasuries up as Nasdaq droops at open. 
•	  BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - Internet stocks in focus in Europe. 
•	  Spending Slowdown Hurts IT Firms In 4Q >EDS CSC 
•	  World markets round-up. 
•	  Allgon seems set to reject Remec bid, shares rise. 
•	  CORRECTED - Online ad cos Q4 earns to suffer from weak ad market. 
•	  Online ad cos Q4 earns to suffer from weak ad market. 
•	  Australian Morning. 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-Bear Stearns cuts Ceridian rating. 
•	 Iomega Issues Earnings  Warning  As Zip Sales Drop --- Spending on Marketing Also Undermines  Profit
•	 More Firms  Cut  Perks To Protect Bottom Line --- Critics Say Moves Are Cosmetic, Sap Morale --- Trend Spreads to Bigger Businesses
•	 Conned investors may never see refunds SEC collection rate falls sharply since '94 
•	  SAP surges as investors look to tech majors. 
•	  Jobs Gives 'Em What They Want 
•	  Tech Stock Focus: E*Trade Australia In The Doldrums 
•	 BAD HOLIDAY HAMMERS NORDSTROM -  
•	 RESEARCH ALERT-Nice  cut  to "Hold".
•	  Building Products Companies Faced Tough 4Q >SHW MAS CXP 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-USBancorp cuts Motorola estimates. 
•	  FFBN High Yield Weekly News Impact -2: Period Ending 1/5 
•	  Autonomy Pleases Mkt, But 2001 Seen Key For IT Outlook 
•	 Shares of Las Vegas-Based Casino Giant Fall on Fourth Quarter  Profit Warning
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  US retailers see cold December sales. 
•	  TECH SPRINT FAILS TO REVIVE AUTONOMY 
•	  Fund Ratings-The fund is managed by OrbiMed Advisors, which consists of a team... 
•	  Some Sectors Continue to Rise; UAL and J.P. Morgan Chase Gain   
•	 US home electronic retailers get boost from rate  cut .
•	  BMC Software 3Q View Breathes Life Into Mainframe Stks 
•	  Inktomi gain evaporates after close 
•	 Shares on Neuer Markt Begin The New Year With a Stagger --- Intershop Communications Issues  Profit Warning  for 2000, Plunges 70.4% --- Internet Sector Fears Slowdown in Information-Technology Spending
•	  WORLD BONDS-U.S. cooldown chills corporates. 
•	  Israel stocks retreat further after Nasdaq. 
•	  F-Secure, peers buckle as investors flee techs. 
•	  U.S. stocks soar on Fed cuts, Nasdaq largest gain ever. ?
 

 U.S.'S Home Depot warns on fourth-quarter profits. 

 By Karen Jacobs 
533 words
19 January 2001
18:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 ATLANTA, Jan 19 (Reuters) - No. 1 home improvement retailer Home Depot Inc. on Friday said it would miss Wall Street earnings estimates in its fiscal fourth quarter, the company's second profit warning in as many quarters. 

 Home Depot also said comparable sales in its fourth quarter would be flat from the year earlier period. 

 Home Depot, among a slew of U.S. retailers hard hit by an economic slowdown, cited weak sales and continued lower prices in lumber, building materials and related products for the profit warning. 

 The giant retailer said it expected to report earnings for the quarter ending Jan. 28 of about 20 cents a share, compared with 25 cents for the year-earlier period. 

 Analysts on average had expected Home Depot to earn 24 cents, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks consensus data. 

 Shares of Home Depot fell $1-15/16, or 4.4 percent, to $42-5/16 in mid-morning New York Stock Exchange trading on Friday. 

 "The tough economy has put tremendous pressure on fourth quarter sales performance and increased competition for share of the consumers' wallets," Home Depot Chief Executive Officer Robert Nardelli said in a statement. 

 Nardelli, who took over as head of Home Depot last month, told financial analysts during a conference call that weakness in the U.S. economy could continue to negatively affect Home Depot for some time despite talk of another cut in U.S. interest rates. 

 The U.S. Federal Reserve cut interest rates by 50 basis points earlier this month, reversing a previous trend toward rising rates. Retailers such as Home Depot, which operates more than 1,000 stores in the United States, are among the first to feel the pinch of rising rates. 

 Home Depot also has stores in Canada and South America. 

 "I don't see any economic indicators that will provide a dramatic change...as we look forward to the first half (of Home Depot's next fiscal year)," Nardelli said. "If the rate cuts come, it will take a while for those to trickle down." 

 Home Depot said comparable sales in its fourth quarter would be flat from the year earlier period. It had previously estimated a rise of four percent in comparable sales. 

 "They are facing very difficult comparisons in a rapidly slowing environment," said Douglas Gordon, an analyst at Banc of America Securities in San Francisco. 

 Gordon said Home Depot's projected earnings miss was a bit larger than he had anticipated, but he added that he was more concerned about the retailer's acknowledgment that current comparable sales were negative compared with a year earlier. 

 "That will make at least the first half of next year extremely difficult," Gordon said. 

 Nardelli said that an unusual 10-percent discount offered over the Christmas holidays had helped to sell more than $100 million worth of discontinued goods in the company's stores in the United States and Canada. 

 Still, he said competition for consumer wallets was tough, and added that the company was not projecting any relief from the pressure it had seen in lumber and building materials. 

Document lba0000020010712dx1j00ii1
?
 

 UPDATE 2-Home Depot issues fourth-quarter  profit warning . 

 By Karen Jacobs 
532 words
19 January 2001
16:32
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 ATLANTA, Jan 19 (Reuters) - No. 1 home improvement retailer Home Depot Inc. on Friday said it would miss Wall Street earnings estimates in its fiscal fourth quarter, the company's second profit warning in as many quarters. 

 Home Depot also said comparable sales in its fourth quarter would be flat from the year earlier period. 

 Home Depot, among a slew of U.S. retailers hard hit by an economic slowdown, cited weak sales and continued lower prices in lumber, building materials and related products for the profit warning. 

 The giant retailer said it expected to report earnings for the quarter ending Jan. 28 of about 20 cents a share, compared with 25 cents for the year-earlier period. 

 Analysts on average had expected Home Depot to earn 24 cents, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks consensus data. 

 Shares of Home Depot fell $1-15/16, or 4.4 percent, to $42-5/16 in mid-morning New York Stock Exchange trading on Friday. 

 "The tough economy has put tremendous pressure on fourth quarter sales performance and increased competition for share of the consumers' wallets," Home Depot Chief Executive Officer Robert Nardelli said in a statement. 

 Nardelli, who took over as head of Home Depot last month, told financial analysts during a conference call that weakness in the U.S. economy could continue to negatively affect Home Depot for some time despite talk of another cut in U.S. interest rates. 

 The U.S. Federal Reserve cut interest rates by 50 basis points earlier this month, reversing a previous trend toward rising rates. Retailers such as Home Depot, which operates more than 1,000 stores in the United States, are among the first to feel the pinch of rising rates. 

 Home Depot also has stores in Canada and South America. 

 "I don't see any economic indicators that will provide a dramatic change...as we look forward to the first half (of Home Depot's next fiscal year)," Nardelli said. "If the rate cuts come, it will take a while for those to trickle down." 

 Home Depot said comparable sales in its fourth quarter would be flat from the year earlier period. It had previously estimated a rise of four percent in comparable sales. 

 "They are facing very difficult comparisons in a rapidly slowing environment," said Douglas Gordon, an analyst at Banc of America Securities in San Francisco. 

 Gordon said Home Depot's projected earnings miss was a bit larger than he had anticipated, but he added that he was more concerned about the retailer's acknowledgment that current comparable sales were negative compared with a year earlier. 

 "That will make at least the first half of next year extremely difficult," Gordon said. 

 Nardelli said that an unusual 10-percent discount offered over the Christmas holidays had helped to sell more than $100 million worth of discontinued goods in the company's stores in the United States and Canada. 

 Still, he said competition for consumer wallets was tough, and added that the company was not projecting any relief from the pressure it had seen in lumber and building materials. 

Document lba0000020010712dx1j00ihv
?
 

 ADC Telecom falls sharply on  profit warning . 

439 words
19 January 2001
18:01
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 19 (Reuters) - Shares of ADC Telecommunications Inc. fell more than 28 percent Friday, the day after the telecommunications gear maker warned its earnings would be hurt by slowing demand in a softening economy. 

 The Minneapolis company also said it expects to name a successor to its retiring chairman and chief executive officer, William Cadogan, by the time it announces its first-quarter earnings next month. 

 ADC shares were down $6-1/16 at $15-1/4 in heavy early-afternoon trading on Nasdaq. Earlier the shares had touched a fresh 52-week low of $15. 

 Late Thursday ADC said it now sees sales for the first quarter of $800 million, up from $594 million a year ago but below the consensus expectation of $881.77 million, according to a First Call/Thomson Financial survey of 12 analysts. It also said its earnings this year should rise by 15 percent from 2000, not the 25 to 30 percent previously expected. 

 The seller of fiber optic, networking equipment and software to carriers for high-speed Internet, data, video and voice services is just the latest equipment maker to be affected by lower carrier spending projections. 

 Brokerages including SG Cowen, ABN Amro and Josephthal & Co. cut their investment recommendations on ADC following the profit warning. 

 "Although we had lowered our EPS (earnings per share) estimates on Jan. 12 due to our concern about the economic slowdown, apparently conditions at ADCT were even softer than we had imagined," wrote Josephthal analyst Lawrence Harris. Harris cut his 2001 earnings estimate to 57 cents from 66 cents per share. 

 "The combination of management in transition and weaker market conditions causes us to be less supportive of ADCT at this time," ABN Amro analyst Kenneth Leon said in a report. He downgraded ADC to hold from buy on Friday. 

 During a conference call Friday morning, Cadogan said his successor would be named before the company posts its first-quarter earnings, scheduled for Feb. 21. Cadogan, whose plans for retirement were announced last spring, will remain within the company for fiscal 2001 as an adviser. 

 ADC will record a charges for previously announced staff cuts during the first and second quarter, it said in the call. It also plans changes in some product lines. 

 Early this month ADC laid-off 400 workers, less than 2 percent of its workforce, at its troublesome systems integration unit. Analysts said more cuts could come. 

 Despite continuing difficulties in the systems integration operation, company officials said they still see solid growth in the wireline access, software and billing software units. 

Document lba0000020010712dx1j00ihi
?
 

 REPEAT-UPDATE 4-Microsoft profits on target but warns on Q3. 

 By Scott Hillis 
1,031 words
19 January 2001
05:34
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 SEATTLE, Jan 18 (Reuters) - Microsoft Corp. said on Thursday its quarterly profits were virtually unchanged from a year ago, in line with lowered forecasts, but the software giant warned that sluggish computer sales and corporate technology buying would hit earnings in its current quarter. 

 Microsoft, which makes the Windows operating system found on most personal computers, said net profits for its fiscal second quarter ended Dec. 31 were $2.62 billion, or 47 cents a share. 

 That was up slightly from $2.44 billion, or 47 cents a share, a year earlier. The year-ago figure excluded a one-time charge of 3 cents a share. 

 Analysts had cut their forecasts for the quarter to an average 47 cents a share, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial, after the company issued a rare profit warning last month amid a downturn in PC sales. 

 The Redmond, Wash.-based company sounded a further cautious note for its current third quarter, saying profits would likely come in at 42 to 43 cents a share, just below the consensus Wall Street forecast of 44 cents. It reported 43 cents a share a year earlier. 

 It repeated that earnings for the full fiscal year, which ends on June 30, are expected to be in the range of $1.80 to $1.82. 

 "Our biggest concern would be PC demand, and then secondly the level of increase in technology spending by corporations," Chief Financial Officer John Connors told Reuters in an interview after the announcement. 

 Microsoft is "looking for the fiscal year 2001 PC unit growth rate to be in the low teens, probably 10 percent at best," Connors said. Microsoft's fiscal year runs from July 1 through June 30. 

 NO SKELETONS IN THE CLOSET 

 But investors appeared to shrug off the warning, pushing Microsoft stock up to $58-5/8 in after-hours trading on Instinet. That followed a gain of $2-9/16, or 4.8 percent, on the Nasdaq before the news. 

 Microsoft stock has tumbled from a high of $116-1/16 a year ago amid fears over its antitrust battle with the U.S. government and technology industry woes. 

 "I think people are going through and not seeing any skeletons in the closet," Scott McAdams, president of Seattle-based brokerage McAdams Wright Ragen said of the after-hours rise. "I was pleasantly surprised." 

 "If there is a negative, it's that their guidance is probably on the low end of what people were looking for. My guess is there's some conservatism in there, but who knows, it may be a lousy quarter," McAdams said. 

 "But they kept their guidance for the full year, so whatever they lose this quarter they think they'll make up in the next," he added. 

 Analysts said they were encouraged by some signs of health, such as a sharp rise in unearned revenue that points to bigger revenues down the road, and quarterly revenues that beat the lowered forecast. 

 Revenues were $6.59 billion, up 8 percent from the $6.11 billion a year earlier, topping the forecast of $6.4 billion to $6.5 billion range, due to what Connors said was a year-end sprint by sales staff. 

 "In general our sales organization did a good job closing December, a little better than we had anticipated," Connors said in the interview. 

 STRONG WINDOWS 

 Connors said Windows 2000 - the Microsoft flagship - and other powerful software for businesses offset slowdowns in consumer PCs and desktop applications, which include the Office suite of programs that is Microsoft's second-biggest money spinner. 

 Sales of Windows 2000 and its predecessor Windows NT rose 39 percent from a year earlier, with the more lucrative server product that powers corporate machines rising 20 percent, Connors said. 

 "We were very, very pleased with the momentum we have in the Windows business," Connors said, without giving absolute sales figures for Windows 2000. 

 On the small but fast-growing consumer side, the MSN Internet access service added half a million subscribers in the quarter to hit 4 million total. 

 But Connors added that the MSN family of Web sites, which includes the MSN.com portal, CarPoint automobile buying service and MoneyCentral personal finance site, would feel the effects of a recent downturn in advertising spending. 

 "We continue to be positive going forward, but it's going to be a more challenging market in general for advertising, whether that's Internet or traditional media, and we would be impacted by that," Connors said. 

 Connors also said the consumer business had lower profit margins than Microsoft's traditional software products, which would force the company to trim costs to offset the drag on gross margins. 

 "We're working very hard to evaluate where we can make trade-offs in expense growth rates to improve our profitability ... but not at the expense of long-term success," he said. 

 FINANCIAL MATTERS STING 

 Microsoft was also stung by some technical financial matters. 

 One regulatory change that requires companies to list the current value of complicated financial instruments called derivatives forced Microsoft to take a $446 million hit to its investment income. 

 "We don't try to predict the ongoing impact of this rule, and anticipate that some quarters will be positive and some quarters negative," Connors said. 

 Microsoft posted investment income of $751 million, down from $1.13 billion in its first quarter. Connors said investment income would continue to be about $800 million a quarter. 

 Microsoft also said it had repurchased about 22.8 million shares of stock worth about $1.5 billion. 

 The company last year launched a new repurchase plan to help keep a lid on the number of outstanding shares and offset stock options it gives many of its 40,000 employees. 

 Connors said Microsoft was also forced to buy its own stock under a complicated hedging scheme that has hurt the company as the stock price falls. 

 But the company's legendary coffers continued to swell, with its cash and short-term investments climbing to nearly $26.9 billion, up $3 billion from six months earlier. 

Document lba0000020010712dx1j00hsz
?
 

 Technology 
 Unisys' 4th Period Hit Forecasts, But 1st-Quarter Outlook Is  Cut 

 By William M. Bulkeley 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
530 words
19 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal
J
B3
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Unisys Corp. reported fourth-quarter results that met lowered expectations, but said a slowing economy is likely to cut results for the current quarter below forecasts. 

 The outlook contrasted with competitor International Business Machines Corp.'s optimistic view for the current year, and depressed Unisys stock, which fell $1.38 to $15.31 in 4 p.m. New York Stock Exchange composite trading. 

 Unisys said fourth-quarter profit before a one-time restructuring charge fell 11% to $128.6 million, or 41 cents a diluted share, from net income of $144.4 million, or 46 cents a share. The results were in line with a Unisys warning in early December of lower earnings. Including a $89.5 million restructuring charge, Unisys net was $39.1 million, or 12 cents a share, down 73%. 

 Revenue fell 1.6% to $1.93 billion from $1.96 billion, partly due to a 4% decline from currency conversion. 

 As for the current quarter, Unisys said it expects earnings to be 20 cents to 25 cents a share, down from $106.5 million, or 34 cents a share, a year ago, and less than the consensus estimate of 28 cents as reported by First Call/Thomson Financial. Due to the weakened first-quarter outlook, Unisys forecast full-year earnings of $1.25 to $1.35 a share. Analysts had expected 2001 earnings of $1.35 a share. 

 Unisys said that it expects 2001 revenue growth "to be at the low end of our 8% to 12% range" predicted in December. The growth forecast excludes commodity hardware products that Unisys won't be selling any more, as well as its federal systems group, which Unisys is considering selling. 

 Gary Helmig, an analyst with Wit Soundview Financial, said, "They have to get the revenue story going. They've had five quarters of revenue decline, and it's getting a little wearying." 

 Unisys, Blue Bell, Pa., said sales of its large computer systems rose 12% from a weak year ago, aided by a new line of mainframes that use Intel Corp. microprocessors. Unisys also said that Hitachi Ltd. will resell the systems, principally in Japan. Hitachi joins Dell Computer Corp, and Compaq Computer Corp. among others as resellers of the Unisys system. 

 Revenue from the services business declined 7% from strong year-earlier results that were bolstered by helping customers ready their computers for the transition to the year 2000. 

 Lawrence Weinbach, Unisys chairman and chief executive, said that in recent weeks he repeatedly heard from customers that they were holding back business while they waited to evaluate the economy. "It's difficult to determine whether we're in a real slowdown or just a pause caused by rhetoric about the slowdown," said Mr. Weinbach. 

 He added that Unisys itself is cutting capital spending by about 10% in the next two months. 

 --- 

 Journal Link: See a video report of Unisys Chairman Lawrence Weinbach saying he remains cautious about the company's earnings outlook, given the current economic environment, in the online Journal at WSJ.com. 

Document j000000020010711dx1j002j7
?
 

 Microsoft Results Meet Lowered Forecast --- Fiscal Second-Quarter Profit Rose 7%, While Revenue Slightly Beat Expectations 

 By Rebecca Buckman 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
949 words
19 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Microsoft Corp., still battling lackluster sales of personal computers, posted earnings in line with lowered expectations, though revenue was slightly higher than expected. 

 The Redmond, Wash., software company also appeared to dodge another bullet, at least for now, by eking out slightly more revenue than expected in its venerable -- though slow-growing -- desktop-applications business. That franchise, mainly consisting of Microsoft's popular Office software suite, posted sales about 2% lower than last year. 

 In an interview, Microsoft Chief Financial Officer John Connors said: "Given the life cycle of where Office is, that's a darn good performance by our sales force." 

 Mr. Connors also left his guidance for revenue and earnings for all of fiscal-year 2001 unchanged from his statements last month, though he remained somewhat guarded about the future for PC sales growth. Microsoft did warn analysts that profit for its fiscal third quarter would range from 42 cents to 43 cents, down a penny or two from the 44 cents that had been estimated by analysts, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Overall, for the fiscal second quarter ended Dec. 31, Microsoft posted net income of $2.62 billion, or 47 cents a diluted share, up about 7% from last year's $2.44 billion, or 44 cents a share, and matching analysts' consensus as tallied by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Revenue, boosted by solid sales of the new Windows 2000 operating system on PC desktops and more-powerful "server" computers, came in at $6.59 billion, up about 8% from $6.11 billion last year. 

 In December, Microsoft warned that revenue would likely come in about 5% to 6% below analysts' expectations at that time, to between $6.4 billion and $6.5 billion. 

 "I think there will be a sense of relief that there was no incremental bad news," said Rick Sherlund, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co. The quarter was "not quite as bad as preannounced," he noted, and included good growth in server software, which helps power business Web sites, e-mail systems and internal networks. 

 Prior to the earnings announcement, Microsoft's shares were up $2.56 to $55.50 in 4 p.m. trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. They jumped in after-hours trading and were changing hands at $59.19. 

 The decline in Office sales, in particular, wasn't as bad as it could have been. Before the announcement, Drew Brosseau, an analyst at SG Cowen Securities, had thought sales could decline as much as 11% -- though he noted he made that prediction only after Microsoft issued its profit warning last month. 

 Office remains a nagging business conundrum for Microsoft, mainly because the product is already so widely used. That means it is tough to sell new copies, even when upgraded versions come along, Mr. Brosseau said. Sluggish Office sales, in fact, were thought to be a major cause of Microsoft's surprising earnings warning issued last month, the first such warning for the company in more than 10 years. Office sales were nearly a third of Microsoft's overall revenue last year. 

 Mr. Brosseau said that at a recent briefing, Microsoft engineers showed him all the "whiz-bang" features of the newest Office version, called Office 10, due out later this year. Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates also showed off an early version of the software at the Comdex computer trade show in Las Vegas in November. 

 Still, "It struck me like most other versions of Office: There were nice things in there, but nothing that made me want to jump up and get the next version," Mr. Brosseau said. What's more, the new product "is only a temporary fix to a long-term problem, which is that everybody's already got one." 

 Mr. Sherlund agreed. "I'm not sure we should look to Office 10 to be the cavalry coming to the rescue," he said. 

 Microsoft officials continue to tout Office 10, however, and its new features such as speech recognition and "smart tags," which allow people to quickly jump from one Office program to another, and even to some data on the Internet. 

 "It's a great product," said Microsoft Chief Executive Steve Ballmer. Some previous Office versions weren't as compelling, he said, adding that he would recommend users switch to Office 10 "without the slightest reservation." 

 More interesting to investors in the most-recent quarter was Microsoft's progress in selling server software to big businesses. Revenue from "enterprise" software and services rose 21% from last year, with server applications -- including the SQL Server database and popular Exchange server, which powers the Outlook e-mail and calendar program -- rising 26%. 

 The server side is "where the growth is going to come from," said David Readerman, who follows Microsoft for Thomas Weisel Partners in San Francisco. "The PC desktop story is a 1990s story, just kind of upgrade, maintenance, milk-the-cow story." 

 Microsoft said its Windows and Office businesses were aided by some last-minute contracts and licensing agreements signed in December. "On the licensing front, we were very pleased with the Windows results," Mr. Connors said. 

 Unlike previous quarters, Microsoft didn't get a big earnings boost from its vast investment portfolio. 

 Though the company reported sizable investment income of $751 million, its net realized gains were just $233 million, down markedly from about $600 million in Microsoft's first fiscal quarter ended in September. The net gains were lower partly because of new accounting rules governing the treatment of derivatives, Mr. Connors said. 

Document j000000020010711dx1j002j3
?
 

 Home Depot Issues  Profit Warning , Citing Weak Sales, Sluggish Economy 

622 words
19 January 2001
12:32
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 ATLANTA -- Home Depot Inc. warned earnings and sales for its fiscal fourth quarter ending Jan. 28 will fall short of Wall Street's estimates, saying high heating bills, worries about the economy and higher interest rates have prompted consumers to postpone home-improvement projects. 

 The retailer, which also cited weak pricing for lumber, expects to report earnings of about 20 cents a share. Analysts had expected Home Depot to report earnings of 24 cents a share, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Home Depot (HD) also said it expects to report sales for the quarter little-changed from a year earlier. The company previously forecast 4% growth in sales. In the year-earlier quarter, Home Depot earned $578 million, or 25 cents a share, on sales of $9.17 billion. 

 "The tough economy has put tremendous pressure on fourth-quarter sales performance and increased competition for share of the consumers' wallets," Home Depot's new president and chief executive, Bob Nardelli, said in a prepared statement. "While home improvement is a high priority for our customers, they are also facing immediate and dramatic pressures in a number of areas, including record cold weather and rising energy costs, investment losses, higher interest rates, and increasing consumer debt levels," he said. 

 At 4 p.m. EST on the New York Stock Exchange, shares of Home Depot were off $3.25, or 7.3%, at $41. 

 For the fiscal year ending Jan. 28, Home Depot trimmed its earnings outlook to $1.10 a share. Analysts were expecting a profit of $1.14 a share for the year. For the fiscal year ended Jan. 30, 2000, the retailer earned $2.32 billion, or $1 a share, on sales of $38.43 billion. 

 Home Depot faced tough comparisons with the year-earlier quarter, when consumers were more inclined to spend and the milder weather lent itself to home renovation, Mr. Nardelli said in a conference call with analysts and investors. 

 The company will focus on moving slow-selling discontinued items out of its stores, which will "unlock cash and free valuable square footage," Mr. Nardelli said. Home Depot will also look at the mix of products to identify the more profitable, top-selling products. 

 He defended the company's four-day promotion during the quarter when it offered a 10% discount on products, saying it met sales and profit margin projections. 

 "It was a gesture of appreciation for customers that got momentum going in a sluggish period," said Mr. Nardelli. However, "it is our belief and policy that Home Depot is more efficient as an everyday low price" operator, he added. 

 Home Depot won't take its sales associates, who offer helpful guidance to customers, off store floors because that would be a "negative decision," Mr. Nardelli said. The company will "aggressively" improve efficiencies and will work to reduce congestion so that the aisles at Home Depot stores are clear for consumers, he said. 

 Mr. Nardelli declined to offer a projection for this year. The company said in its release that it expects many of the same economic factors affecting sales in the fourth quarter to persist in the first half of 2001 and advised a "cautious near-term outlook." 

 Several analysts in recent weeks have trimmed their fourth-quarter forecasts for Lowe's Inc. (LOW), Home Depot's chief competitor in the home-improvement retail market. Some analysts cited a profit warning issued in November by Masco Corp. (MAS), the home-improvement industry's largest supplier, which said disappointing sales to home centers were largely to blame for its expected earnings shortfall. 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020010711dx1j009e0
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Don't Count On WCOM Buyout, Analyst Says 

1,415 words
19 January 2001
18:01
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



1:02 (Dow Jones) WorldCom (WCOM) is more exposed than any other
company to the downhill ride of long-distance voice business, says
Credit Suisse First Boston analyst Dan Reingold. In a Friday conference
call, Reingold said long-distance voice services account for 55% of
WorldCom's revenue. He estimates that WorldCom's guidance in November
was too pessimistic, but its stockprice already reflects that the
company will better that forecast. He also questions speculation that
WorldCom might be bought by BellSouth Corp. (BLS) or SBC Communications
Inc. (SBC), saying such a merger would not pass regulatory muster. (CBN)



12:54 (Dow Jones) In last year's 3Q, homeowners owed a record high 46%
of the value of their homes between first mortgages and home equity
credit lines. Also, margin debt fell from $278B last March to just under
$200B last month. Historically, margin balances often fall to roughly
10% of their previous highs. Even an overall decline of 50% leaves
another $60B or so in shrinkage yet to occur. The consumer's debt-paying
ability is clearly in considerably more precarious shape with any
sustained economic decline. (GK)



12:28 (Dow Jones) Congressional Republicans will huddle with
President-elect George W. Bush at the White House Monday - Bush's first
business day in office - to discuss the new president's agenda and how
to move it through Congress, Senate Republican Leader Trent Lott,
R-Miss., said. (MHA)



12:19 (Dow Jones) MeriStar Hospitality Corp.'s (MHX) issue expected to
price this afternoon via Lehman has been upsized, say sources familiar
with the deal. In addition to the $300M 7-year notes with price talk of
yield 9%-9.125%, the company now plans an additional $200M 10-year notes
expected to yield 1/8 point higher than the 7-years. (RTB)



12:13 (Dow Jones) Senate GOP Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., said Friday
that the Senate will likely approve a bulk of President-elect George W.
Bush's cabinet nominees by the end of next week. Lott said the Senate
plans Saturday to confirm former Alcoa Inc. CEO Paul O'Neill as the new
Treasury Secretary and retired Gen. Colin Powell as Secretary of State.
(DMK)



12:03 (Dow Jones) Despite meeting analysts' fourth-quarter earnings
views, investors have some concerns about Genentech (DNA). The biotech
company's 2001 EPS growth guidance of 20% to 25%; lower-than-expected
Herceptin sales for the third consecutive quarter; slowing demand of its
growth hormone products Nutropin and Nutropin Depot; cautious comments
about a possible delay of its experimental asthma treatment Xolair; and
higher expenses in 2001 forced some in the investment community to
question the stock's high-flying premium. Shares of Genentech fell 11%.
(BMM)



11:59 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps trade quietly weaker in light volume.
Traders say the market is likely consolidating after Thursday's gains.
"It seems we overshot it yesterday," one trader says. He adds part of
the market's weakness comes from some technical analysis that
recommended selling March S&Ps if the market did not open above 1373.50.
(DMC)



11:50 (Dow Jones) ADC Telecommunications (ADCT) became a Wall Street
whipping boy Friday as a number of analysts cut their ratings on the
stock after the company slashed 1Q earnings estimates in half. ABN-AMRO
analyst Ken Leon says a "'combination of management in transition and
weaker market conditions causes us to be less than supportive." At least
four other analysts also cut their ratings. "Historically, the January
quarter has been ADC's most challenging," says Josephthal & Co. analyst
Lawrence Harris, who cut ADC to hold from buy. "When carrier spending
tends to be on the low side, it exacerbates the problem." (JDB)



11:31 (Dow Jones) Early rumors of derivatives losses at a French bank
refuse to go away. The talk hasn't had a direct impact, but it is making
potential buyers of the major bond contracts a lot more reticent, says
dealer. (NK)



11:20 (Dow Jones) Here's why stocks will probably stage another retest
of recent lows, as Jeff deGraaf, technical analyst at Lehman Brothers,
sees it. First, volume expanded at the recent bottom. This can happen at
ultimate bottoms, he says, but usually only when the bottom is
capitulative, and he doesn't think it was. Next, volatility was
expanding at lows, when it usually contracts as investors start to
neglect the market and the selling and buying forces diminish. Momentum
was not decelerating at the bottom, which is usually indicative of a
"testing" phase, and sentiment surveys were not resoundingly bearish,
but moderately complacent. (TG)



11:08 (Dow Jones) The U.S. recovery may prove to be V-shaped. But has
it reached the bottom of the V yet? If it hasn't, says Mark Cliffe at
ING Barings, then expect market to become even more optimistic about
rate cuts in U.S. and Europe. (NEH)



11:01 (Dow Jones) Putnam Lovell Securities downgrades Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCH) to hold from buy, a day after Schwab reported 4Q earnings
below expectations. Analyst Richard Repetto cites stock valuation
(despite the 24% drop in the shares over the past six months), market
conditions, and difficult year-over-year comparisons. Schwab shares are
flat at $27.50. (GFC)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude sharply higher, gaining 75 cents a
barrel to intraday high of $31.20, after contract hits buy stops at
$30.50. Resistance seen at $31.40 and $32/bbl. "Obviously, OPEC cutback
is underpinning (nearby crude)," analyst says. (MSX)



10:45 (Dow Jones) The presumed market dominance of B2B darlings Ariba
(ARBA) and Commerce One (CMRC) is waning, warns CIBC. These software
firms have focused on online procurement as the core of B2B, but over
the last six months "it has become clear that this is not the direction
the world is heading." Rather, supply chain collaboration is the brass
ring of B2B and these companies have limited capabilities there, analyst
Melissa Eisenstat warns. She downgrades Ariba and Commerce One noting
there is "substantial risk" if they are unable to adapt to these
industry changes. (MLP)



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025sq
?
 

 WSJ.COM WRAP: Home Depot Cuts 4Q Outlook Amid Weak Sales 

447 words
19 January 2001
16:11
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


    A WSJ.COM News Roundup



ATLANTA -(Dow Jones)- Home Depot Inc. (HD) slashed its profit outlook
for the fourth quarter and fiscal year, citing the softening U.S.
economy and weak sales resulting from continued declines in the price of
building materials.


 The big home-improvement retailer now expects fiscal fourth-quarter earnings of about 20 cents a share, below the current mean estimate of 24 cents a share from analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. Home Depot also said it anticipates flat sales for the quarter, compared with its previous estimate of 4% sales growth. Analysts had projected flat-to-2% sales growth for the period. 

 For the quarter ended Jan. 30, 2000, Home Depot earned $578 million, or 25 cents a share, on sales of $9.17 billion. 

 For the fiscal year ending Jan. 28, Home Depot trimmed its outlook to $1.10 a share. Analysts were expecting a profit of $1.14 a share for the year. For the fiscal year ended Jan. 30, 2000, the retailer earned $2.32 billion, or $1 a share, on sales of $38.43 billion. 

 The news sent shares of Home Depot tumbling to $42 in premarket trading Friday, according to Reuters Instinet. At 4 p.m. Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange, the stock traded at $44.25, down $2.13, or 4.8%. 

 Home Depot said the tough economy has put "tremendous pressure" on fiscal fourth-quarter sales, and that the same factors will persist in the first half of fiscal 2001, "arguing for a cautious near-term outlook." The company didn't elaborate. 

 Several analysts in recent weeks have trimmed their fiscal fourth-quarter forecasts for Home Depot and Lowe's Inc., Home Depot's chief competitor in the home-improvement retail market. Some analysts cited a profit warning issued in November by Masco Corp. (MAS), the home-improvement industry's largest supplier, which said disappointing sales to home centers were largely to blame for its expected earnings shortfall. 

 Last month Home Depot, in an effort to jump-start sales, offered 10% off all merchandise through Christmas Eve, the first time in eight years the retailer had run such a promotion. The move surprised rivals and retail observers since Home Depot, like many big-box retailers, has traditionally resisted sporadic sales promotions in favor of consistent low prices. 

 Analysts expressed fear that the storewide price promotion would set a bad precedent for Home Depot, leading to volatile sales and harder-to-beat results a year later. 

 -For continuously updated news from The Wall Street Journal, see WSJ.com at http://wsj.com. 

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025mi
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Luster May Be Coming Off Ariba, Commerce One 

1,368 words
19 January 2001
15:46
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:45 (Dow Jones) The presumed market dominance of B2B darlings Ariba
(ARBA) and Commerce One (CMRC) is waning, warns CIBC. These software
firms have focused on online procurement as the core of B2B, but over
the last six months "it has become clear that this is not the direction
the world is heading." Rather, supply chain collaboration is the brass
ring of B2B and these companies have limited capabilities there, analyst
Melissa Eisenstat warns. She downgrades Ariba and Commerce One noting
there is "substantial risk" if they are unable to adapt to these
industry changes. (MLP)



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)



10:04 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq firmer, but off highs. Despite
pullback, traders say the market appears to have created a trend with
the recent firmer closes. "It's been a slow grind up, and that's a good
sign," one says. "It means we're consolidating." However, they're not
sure whether this is a short-term trend or something more substantial.
"We have to get much higher, back into the mid-3000s before we call this
more than a correction." (DMC)



9:48 (Dow Jones) EBay Inc. (EBAY) has bucked the trend of
less-than-rosy dot-com news, and its stock is soaring. The online
marketplace reported stronger-than-consensus revenue and EPS numbers of
$134M and 9c, respectively, Thursday night. Consensus was $125.5M and
7c. Analysts characterized eBay's various metrics as strong across the
board, despite the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile,
the company noted that a California court had dismissed a lawsuit
against eBay over allegedly fraudulent sports memorabilia. (RS)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The writing was on the wall for Home Depot (HD).
Rumors had been swirling about the company in the wake of its
competitors' woes, and, on Wednesday, Prudential cut the company to hold
from strong buy, saying it believed a profit miss and negative outlook
was on the way. (RJH)



9:40 (Dow Jones) Sara Lee (SLE) may be close to buying the baking
operations from Unilever NV (UN) for about $1.4 billion, according to
Deutsche Bank analsyt Eric Katzman. A Sara Lee spokeswoman wouldn't
comment and a Unilever official couldn't be reached. Katzman, who cites
unnamed "sources" for his information, said a deal could be announced as
early as next week. (CEG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq trade higher in early dealings,
supported by strong overnight trade. Floor traders say markets find
support from as-expected earnings from Microsoft (MSFT) and Sun (SUNW).
Focus remains on earnings and Jan. S&P options expiry. (DMC)



9:35 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen 15-25 cents a barrel lower early on,
retracing Thursday gains and in line with overnight losses. Seen
consolidating until market gets clearer picture of effect of supply cuts
versus easing demand, analyst says. Support for Feb. crude, down 22c to
$30.23 on ACCESS, seen at $30. Contract has resistance at $30.50. March
crude down 17c to $28.50 overnight. (MSX)



9:33 (Dow Jones) Foreseeing some negative risks that could knock the
biotech heavyweight off its perch, Credit Suisse First Boston analyst
Alex To lowered his opinion on Genentech Inc. (DNA) to buy from strong
buy and price target to $80 from $125. He cited upcoming competition to
Genentech's revenue driver Rituxan and the likely delay of
investigational asthma drug Xolair's market launch. To cut 2001 earnings
to 73 cents a share from 75 cents. (BMM)



9:25 (Dow Jones) Fed's Broaddus' reassuring remarks about economy -
less recession risk seen - haven't tipped Treasurys market expectations
in favor of 25 bp rather than 50 bp rate cut at Jan. FOMC, says fund
manager, because effect of very weak Philly Fed business index Thursday
persists. (JNP)



9:18 (Dow Jones) One interesting caveat included in the new Basel
Accord draft is that banks will get some relief for credit protection,
such as credit derivatives, provided these are watertight and the
provider has a rating of at least A, CS First Boston research notes.
(TL)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025jv
?
 

 MARKET TALK: March Nasdaq Holds Near Key Area 

1,269 words
19 January 2001
15:40
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)



10:04 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq firmer, but off highs. Despite
pullback, traders say the market appears to have created a trend with
the recent firmer closes. "It's been a slow grind up, and that's a good
sign," one says. "It means we're consolidating." However, they're not
sure whether this is a short-term trend or something more substantial.
"We have to get much higher, back into the mid-3000s before we call this
more than a correction." (DMC)



9:48 (Dow Jones) EBay Inc. (EBAY) has bucked the trend of
less-than-rosy dot-com news, and its stock is soaring. The online
marketplace reported stronger-than-consensus revenue and EPS numbers of
$134M and 9c, respectively, Thursday night. Consensus was $125.5M and
7c. Analysts characterized eBay's various metrics as strong across the
board, despite the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile,
the company noted that a California court had dismissed a lawsuit
against eBay over allegedly fraudulent sports memorabilia. (RS)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The writing was on the wall for Home Depot (HD).
Rumors had been swirling about the company in the wake of its
competitors' woes, and, on Wednesday, Prudential cut the company to hold
from strong buy, saying it believed a profit miss and negative outlook
was on the way. (RJH)



9:40 (Dow Jones) Sara Lee (SLE) may be close to buying the baking
operations from Unilever NV (UN) for about $1.4 billion, according to
Deutsche Bank analsyt Eric Katzman. A Sara Lee spokeswoman wouldn't
comment and a Unilever official couldn't be reached. Katzman, who cites
unnamed "sources" for his information, said a deal could be announced as
early as next week. (CEG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq trade higher in early dealings,
supported by strong overnight trade. Floor traders say markets find
support from as-expected earnings from Microsoft (MSFT) and Sun (SUNW).
Focus remains on earnings and Jan. S&P options expiry. (DMC)



9:35 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen 15-25 cents a barrel lower early on,
retracing Thursday gains and in line with overnight losses. Seen
consolidating until market gets clearer picture of effect of supply cuts
versus easing demand, analyst says. Support for Feb. crude, down 22c to
$30.23 on ACCESS, seen at $30. Contract has resistance at $30.50. March
crude down 17c to $28.50 overnight. (MSX)



9:33 (Dow Jones) Foreseeing some negative risks that could knock the
biotech heavyweight off its perch, Credit Suisse First Boston analyst
Alex To lowered his opinion on Genentech Inc. (DNA) to buy from strong
buy and price target to $80 from $125. He cited upcoming competition to
Genentech's revenue driver Rituxan and the likely delay of
investigational asthma drug Xolair's market launch. To cut 2001 earnings
to 73 cents a share from 75 cents. (BMM)



9:25 (Dow Jones) Fed's Broaddus' reassuring remarks about economy -
less recession risk seen - haven't tipped Treasurys market expectations
in favor of 25 bp rather than 50 bp rate cut at Jan. FOMC, says fund
manager, because effect of very weak Philly Fed business index Thursday
persists. (JNP)



9:18 (Dow Jones) One interesting caveat included in the new Basel
Accord draft is that banks will get some relief for credit protection,
such as credit derivatives, provided these are watertight and the
provider has a rating of at least A, CS First Boston research notes.
(TL)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025jq
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Options Sentiment Barometer Turns Bearish 

1,201 words
19 January 2001
15:37
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)



10:04 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq firmer, but off highs. Despite
pullback, traders say the market appears to have created a trend with
the recent firmer closes. "It's been a slow grind up, and that's a good
sign," one says. "It means we're consolidating." However, they're not
sure whether this is a short-term trend or something more substantial.
"We have to get much higher, back into the mid-3000s before we call this
more than a correction." (DMC)



9:48 (Dow Jones) EBay Inc. (EBAY) has bucked the trend of
less-than-rosy dot-com news, and its stock is soaring. The online
marketplace reported stronger-than-consensus revenue and EPS numbers of
$134M and 9c, respectively, Thursday night. Consensus was $125.5M and
7c. Analysts characterized eBay's various metrics as strong across the
board, despite the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile,
the company noted that a California court had dismissed a lawsuit
against eBay over allegedly fraudulent sports memorabilia. (RS)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The writing was on the wall for Home Depot (HD).
Rumors had been swirling about the company in the wake of its
competitors' woes, and, on Wednesday, Prudential cut the company to hold
from strong buy, saying it believed a profit miss and negative outlook
was on the way. (RJH)



9:40 (Dow Jones) Sara Lee (SLE) may be close to buying the baking
operations from Unilever NV (UN) for about $1.4 billion, according to
Deutsche Bank analsyt Eric Katzman. A Sara Lee spokeswoman wouldn't
comment and a Unilever official couldn't be reached. Katzman, who cites
unnamed "sources" for his information, said a deal could be announced as
early as next week. (CEG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq trade higher in early dealings,
supported by strong overnight trade. Floor traders say markets find
support from as-expected earnings from Microsoft (MSFT) and Sun (SUNW).
Focus remains on earnings and Jan. S&P options expiry. (DMC)



9:35 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen 15-25 cents a barrel lower early on,
retracing Thursday gains and in line with overnight losses. Seen
consolidating until market gets clearer picture of effect of supply cuts
versus easing demand, analyst says. Support for Feb. crude, down 22c to
$30.23 on ACCESS, seen at $30. Contract has resistance at $30.50. March
crude down 17c to $28.50 overnight. (MSX)



9:33 (Dow Jones) Foreseeing some negative risks that could knock the
biotech heavyweight off its perch, Credit Suisse First Boston analyst
Alex To lowered his opinion on Genentech Inc. (DNA) to buy from strong
buy and price target to $80 from $125. He cited upcoming competition to
Genentech's revenue driver Rituxan and the likely delay of
investigational asthma drug Xolair's market launch. To cut 2001 earnings
to 73 cents a share from 75 cents. (BMM)



9:25 (Dow Jones) Fed's Broaddus' reassuring remarks about economy -
less recession risk seen - haven't tipped Treasurys market expectations
in favor of 25 bp rather than 50 bp rate cut at Jan. FOMC, says fund
manager, because effect of very weak Philly Fed business index Thursday
persists. (JNP)



9:18 (Dow Jones) One interesting caveat included in the new Basel
Accord draft is that banks will get some relief for credit protection,
such as credit derivatives, provided these are watertight and the
provider has a rating of at least A, CS First Boston research notes.
(TL)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025jo
?
 

 MARKET TALK: March S&Ps Get Bounce, But Still Acts Soft 

1,100 words
19 January 2001
15:32
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)



10:04 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq firmer, but off highs. Despite
pullback, traders say the market appears to have created a trend with
the recent firmer closes. "It's been a slow grind up, and that's a good
sign," one says. "It means we're consolidating." However, they're not
sure whether this is a short-term trend or something more substantial.
"We have to get much higher, back into the mid-3000s before we call this
more than a correction." (DMC)



9:48 (Dow Jones) EBay Inc. (EBAY) has bucked the trend of
less-than-rosy dot-com news, and its stock is soaring. The online
marketplace reported stronger-than-consensus revenue and EPS numbers of
$134M and 9c, respectively, Thursday night. Consensus was $125.5M and
7c. Analysts characterized eBay's various metrics as strong across the
board, despite the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile,
the company noted that a California court had dismissed a lawsuit
against eBay over allegedly fraudulent sports memorabilia. (RS)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The writing was on the wall for Home Depot (HD).
Rumors had been swirling about the company in the wake of its
competitors' woes, and, on Wednesday, Prudential cut the company to hold
from strong buy, saying it believed a profit miss and negative outlook
was on the way. (RJH)



9:40 (Dow Jones) Sara Lee (SLE) may be close to buying the baking
operations from Unilever NV (UN) for about $1.4 billion, according to
Deutsche Bank analsyt Eric Katzman. A Sara Lee spokeswoman wouldn't
comment and a Unilever official couldn't be reached. Katzman, who cites
unnamed "sources" for his information, said a deal could be announced as
early as next week. (CEG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq trade higher in early dealings,
supported by strong overnight trade. Floor traders say markets find
support from as-expected earnings from Microsoft (MSFT) and Sun (SUNW).
Focus remains on earnings and Jan. S&P options expiry. (DMC)



9:35 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen 15-25 cents a barrel lower early on,
retracing Thursday gains and in line with overnight losses. Seen
consolidating until market gets clearer picture of effect of supply cuts
versus easing demand, analyst says. Support for Feb. crude, down 22c to
$30.23 on ACCESS, seen at $30. Contract has resistance at $30.50. March
crude down 17c to $28.50 overnight. (MSX)



9:33 (Dow Jones) Foreseeing some negative risks that could knock the
biotech heavyweight off its perch, Credit Suisse First Boston analyst
Alex To lowered his opinion on Genentech Inc. (DNA) to buy from strong
buy and price target to $80 from $125. He cited upcoming competition to
Genentech's revenue driver Rituxan and the likely delay of
investigational asthma drug Xolair's market launch. To cut 2001 earnings
to 73 cents a share from 75 cents. (BMM)



9:25 (Dow Jones) Fed's Broaddus' reassuring remarks about economy -
less recession risk seen - haven't tipped Treasurys market expectations
in favor of 25 bp rather than 50 bp rate cut at Jan. FOMC, says fund
manager, because effect of very weak Philly Fed business index Thursday
persists. (JNP)



9:18 (Dow Jones) One interesting caveat included in the new Basel
Accord draft is that banks will get some relief for credit protection,
such as credit derivatives, provided these are watertight and the
provider has a rating of at least A, CS First Boston research notes.
(TL)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025ji
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Capital One Secondary Bucks Recent Trend 

1,042 words
19 January 2001
15:28
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)



10:04 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq firmer, but off highs. Despite
pullback, traders say the market appears to have created a trend with
the recent firmer closes. "It's been a slow grind up, and that's a good
sign," one says. "It means we're consolidating." However, they're not
sure whether this is a short-term trend or something more substantial.
"We have to get much higher, back into the mid-3000s before we call this
more than a correction." (DMC)



9:48 (Dow Jones) EBay Inc. (EBAY) has bucked the trend of
less-than-rosy dot-com news, and its stock is soaring. The online
marketplace reported stronger-than-consensus revenue and EPS numbers of
$134M and 9c, respectively, Thursday night. Consensus was $125.5M and
7c. Analysts characterized eBay's various metrics as strong across the
board, despite the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile,
the company noted that a California court had dismissed a lawsuit
against eBay over allegedly fraudulent sports memorabilia. (RS)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The writing was on the wall for Home Depot (HD).
Rumors had been swirling about the company in the wake of its
competitors' woes, and, on Wednesday, Prudential cut the company to hold
from strong buy, saying it believed a profit miss and negative outlook
was on the way. (RJH)



9:40 (Dow Jones) Sara Lee (SLE) may be close to buying the baking
operations from Unilever NV (UN) for about $1.4 billion, according to
Deutsche Bank analsyt Eric Katzman. A Sara Lee spokeswoman wouldn't
comment and a Unilever official couldn't be reached. Katzman, who cites
unnamed "sources" for his information, said a deal could be announced as
early as next week. (CEG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq trade higher in early dealings,
supported by strong overnight trade. Floor traders say markets find
support from as-expected earnings from Microsoft (MSFT) and Sun (SUNW).
Focus remains on earnings and Jan. S&P options expiry. (DMC)



9:35 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen 15-25 cents a barrel lower early on,
retracing Thursday gains and in line with overnight losses. Seen
consolidating until market gets clearer picture of effect of supply cuts
versus easing demand, analyst says. Support for Feb. crude, down 22c to
$30.23 on ACCESS, seen at $30. Contract has resistance at $30.50. March
crude down 17c to $28.50 overnight. (MSX)



9:33 (Dow Jones) Foreseeing some negative risks that could knock the
biotech heavyweight off its perch, Credit Suisse First Boston analyst
Alex To lowered his opinion on Genentech Inc. (DNA) to buy from strong
buy and price target to $80 from $125. He cited upcoming competition to
Genentech's revenue driver Rituxan and the likely delay of
investigational asthma drug Xolair's market launch. To cut 2001 earnings
to 73 cents a share from 75 cents. (BMM)



9:25 (Dow Jones) Fed's Broaddus' reassuring remarks about economy -
less recession risk seen - haven't tipped Treasurys market expectations
in favor of 25 bp rather than 50 bp rate cut at Jan. FOMC, says fund
manager, because effect of very weak Philly Fed business index Thursday
persists. (JNP)



9:18 (Dow Jones) One interesting caveat included in the new Basel
Accord draft is that banks will get some relief for credit protection,
such as credit derivatives, provided these are watertight and the
provider has a rating of at least A, CS First Boston research notes.
(TL)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025j7
?
 

 Tough Economy Hurts Home Depot's 4Q Profits 

 By Mary Ellen Lloyd 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
944 words
19 January 2001
15:04
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 CHARLOTTE -(Dow Jones)- Home Depot Inc. (HD) warned Friday that fourth-quarter profits will be 17% below Wall Street's estimates as high heating bills and higher interest rates have prompted U.S. consumers to put off home-improvement projects. 

 The largest U.S. home-improvement retailer said the tough economy and continued deflation in lumber pricing were key factors in lowering its earnings outlook to 20 cents a share. Analysts had expected Home Depot, a Dow Jones Industrial Average component, to report earnings of 24 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 That estimate, however, had been coming down in recent weeks as analysts saw signs sales weakness had persisted and under fear margins would be hurt by an unusual mid-December sale. 

 "The tough economy has put tremendous pressure on fourth quarter sales performance and increased competition for share of the consumers' wallets," said Home Depot's new president and chief executive, Bob Nardelli, in a statement. "While home improvement is a high priority for our customers, they are also facing immediate and dramatic pressures in a number of areas, including record cold weather and rising energy costs, investment losses, higher interest rates, and increasing consumer debt levels." 

 Home Depot shares were down as much as 7% in early trading, while No. 2 do-it-yourself retailer Lowe's Cos Inc. (LOW) shares fell 3%. 

 Shares of both Home Depot and Lowe's fell earlier this week amid fears that fourth quarter earnings would disappoint. 

 Ryan Beck & Co. analyst Timothy L. Jones, who rates both companies hold, said Friday's announcement wasn't surprising given recent trends. He noted that two of the home-improvement retailing industry's largest suppliers - building products supplier Masco Corp. (MAS) and appliance manufacturer Applica Inc. (APN) - had already warned of weak sales. 

 He believes most of the weakness stems from Americans eyeing losses in the stock market in the most recent quarter and putting off major remodeling projects. 

 "It's not Mr. and Mrs. Fixer Upper, it's the large projects, spending $30,000 to $50,000 to remodel a kitchen, for example," he said. 

 Analysts said Friday that even though many on Wall Street have lowered fourth quarter estimates for Lowe's in recent weeks, the announcement by Home Depot likely means that Lowe's  will miss even those estimates. 

 A First Call survey of 22 analysts put Lowe's fourth quarter earnings at 39 cents a share, flat from a year earlier. 

 Jefferies & Co. analyst Donald Trott, who lowered his Lowe's estimate two pennies to 39 cents on Wednesday, acknowledged that estimate is "vulnerable." Lowe's earnings could come in as low as 37 cents, he said. 

 Home Depot executives said they'd hoped a 10%-off everything sale for four days in December would carry an improved tone into January, but it apparently didn't. Lowe's matched the sale at its own stores. 

 Trott noted that some of Home Depot's good customers made purchases earlier than they otherwise anticipated, which is now affecting January figures. 

 Home Depot President Nardelli, however, called the sale a "one-time event," and analysts said they don't expect a lingering effect on margins into next quarter. 

 Friday's announcement follows Home Depot's profit warning for the third quarter - the first such warning in five years. 

 Through the nine months ended Oct. 29, the Atlanta company reported net income of $2.1 billion, or 90 cents a diluted share, on sales of $35.3 billion. With Friday's guidance, Home Depot should post fiscal 2000 earnings of $1.10 a share. 

 As reported, Home Depot President Nardelli declined to give guidance on earnings for fiscal 2001, which ends in January 2002. The company's statement, however, said it expects the same economic factors affecting sales now to persist in the first half of 2001. 

 Some analysts are ratcheting down growth-rate estimates from earlier views of between 23% and 25%. 

 Jefferies & Co.'s Trott lowered his underlying growth rate forecast to 17% from a prior estimate of 20%. He cut his 2001 earnings estimate 9 cents to $1.28 a share. 

 UBS Warburg analyst Aram Rubinson, who had cut his 2001 estimate to $1.35 a share from $1.42 last week, said in a research note Friday he is now using a range of $1.25 to $1.30. That implies 14% to 18% growth over 2000. Rubinson said his estimate assumes 2% comparable-store sales growth and flat operating margins with the current year. 

 Rubinson also reiterated his strong buy rating on Home Depot shares. 

 He said investors would be "running for the exits" on Home Depot shares if interest rates were beginning to rise, if home sales were beginning to slow and if homebuilder fundamentals were starting to fall apart. "The fact of the matter is, however, that the opposite is true," he wrote. "Rates are falling, housing is stabilizing and homebuilder stats are rallying." 

 Five other analysts rate Home Depot a strong buy, according to First Call. Eight analysts have buy ratings on the shares, while another eight have hold ratings. 

 A Lowe's spokeswoman on Friday said the company had no new guidance since its Dec. 11 statement that it expects fourth-quarter earnings of between 40 cents a diluted share and 42 cents on a 2% to 4% decline in comparable-store sales. Lowe's is scheduled to report earnings Feb. 26. 

 -By Mary Ellen Lloyd, Dow Jones Newswires; 704-371-4033; maryellen.lloyd@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025ho
?
 

BUSINESS
Microsoft Earnings In Line With Lower Quarterly Forecast

Kelly Zito; Chronicle Staff Writer   
654 words
19 January 2001
The San Francisco Chronicle
SFC
FINAL
B1
English
Copyright 2001. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Microsoft met reduced second-quarter estimates but warned yesterday that a further cooling of the economy could impact the bottom line.

The world's No. 1 softwaremaker, which cut its quarterly forecast last month for the first time in 11 years, reported net income of $2.62 billion (47 cents per share) for the second quarter ended Dec. 31, compared with $2.4 billion (44 cents) for the same period a year ago.

Revenue for the quarter rose 8 percent to $6.59 billion from $6.11 billion. The consensus estimate according to a poll of analysts by First Call/Thomson pegged net income at 47 cents and revenues at $6.5 billion.

Prior to Microsoft's mid-December warning, analysts had anticipated a profit of 49 cents a share on sales of $6.8 billion.

"We're pleased with the December results in that they came in slightly above our expectations," said Microsoft chief financial officer John Connors, adding, "I'm super proud of the progress we're making with Windows 2000."

Microsoft said Windows sales figures set a record during the quarter, with Windows 2000 Professional and Windows NT, its operating systems for corporate customers, posting 19 percent gains. That helped offset a decline in demand for its Office suite of word processing, spreadsheet and other applications.

Connors remained cautious about the short term, however, noting that "Our company would not be immune to any further significant slowing in economic activity."

He also cut third-quarter earnings estimates. The firm is now predicting net income of 42 or 43 cents per share for the quarter ending March 31. Analysts had forecast 44 cents per share.

"It looks on first glance like they are bringing March guidance (estimates on third-quarter performance) in a little," said Aaron Scott, an analyst with Tucker Anthony Capital, who has a "buy" recommendation for Microsoft shares. "I'm just a little concerned about that."

Microsoft late last year joined a list of high-tech luminaries, including Intel, Apple, Gateway and others, that warned Wall Street of lower-than- expected quarterly earnings due to a worldwide economic slowdown and reduced information technology spending by corporate customers.

This came in the midst of Microsoft's attempts to re-engineer both itself and its software. Last year, the firm unveiled its .Net strategy, an effort to bind its software more tightly to the Internet. The initiative is aimed at making its products available on a host of digital devices -- a dramatic departure for the firm that once advocated "a PC on every desktop."

In addition, Microsoft is expanding into new markets.

This year, the company will release UltimateTV, a hybrid of satellite TV, Web surfing and digital video recording, and Xbox, its first video-game console.

"While we are enthusiastic about the breakthrough products and services the company will be delivering in 2001, we remain guarded about the near-term economic outlook and its impact on PC demand and technology spending," Connors said.

Microsoft shares advanced about 5 percent yesterday, or $2.56, closing at $55.50. In after-hours trading, the stock jumped 6.6 percent to $59.19.

Although Microsoft stock is up 28 percent this year, it is still far off its 52-week high of $116.06.

Uncertainty surrounding the company's antitrust battle with the Justice Department has dampened investors' enthusiasm for the company.

In recent weeks, however, Microsoft has received good news.

On Friday, a Baltimore judge dismissed 38 private antitrust lawsuits filed on the heels of U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's ruling that the company violated the Sherman Antitrust Act.

In addition, the incoming Bush administration is seen as less likely to push for the breakup of Microsoft as ordered by Jackson.

Microsoft is appealing the ruling.

E-mail Kelly Zito at kzito@sfchronicle.com.

Document SFC0000020120703dx1j005gq
?
 

 IBM earnings help US stocks hold on to gains. 

626 words
19 January 2001
The Scotsman
SC
10
English
(c) 2001

 GAINS in the Dow were initially stalled by a drop in shares of Caterpillar in the wake of a profit warning. But a vigorous climb in IBM, and Hewlett-Packard gave the blue-chip barometer the momentum it needed to make a successful push into the plus column. 

 IBM's shares shot higher after it announced overnight it beat quarterly earnings forecasts, and other technology stocks rode higher on its coattails. 

 Donald Berdine chief investment officer at PNC Advisors said: "We've had a couple of positive earnings announcements in terms of the outlook and clearly IBM was one of those. I think that calmed some of the fears that this thing is just spiralling out of control." 

 The Dow Jones industrial average also clung near the day's highs, up 94.93, or 0.89per cent, at 10,678.28. IBM's rally - up 11-5/8 at 108-5/16 - made up more than half the Dow's gain, offsetting a loss by Caterpillar, which forecast a 5-8 per cent drop in its profits for this year. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was up 18.97, or 1.43 per cent, at 1,348.44. 

 Meanwhile, a sharp fall in January business conditions raised hopes that the US Federal Reserve may have to move quickly to revive a sagging economy with bigger interest rate cuts. 

 The manufacturing sector in the mid-Atlantic region contracted in January to its most dismal level in more than a decade, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia said. 

 Paul Cherney, an analyst at S&P MarketScope said "People are willing to look over the 'lack of earnings' valley because of the Fed. The Fed has bolstered confidence that we will pull through this." 

 Investors' enthusiasm over IBM's positive outlook despite a slowing US economy and slackening demand for personal computers spread to shares of computer and semiconductor makers. The American Stock Exchanges computer hardware index was up 5.9 per cent, and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index was up 4.8 per cent. 

 Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward Jones said: "IBM provides optimism, but there are still concerns. Right now investors are trying to sort out the dismal earnings reports and weigh that against the odds of the Fed aggressively easing at the end of the month." 

 Caterpillar, the giant construction and mining equipment maker, fell 2-7/8 to 41-3/4. The Dow component posted strong profits for the latest quarter but forecast a drop in earnings for the year 2001 amid a "difficult global business environment." 

 Sears was down 31 cents at $34.44 after forecasting a challenging year ahead. The retailer reported that while it struggled in the fourth quarter, it still met expectations. Many other companies are also saying they're being pinched by a slowing economy, high energy prices and fluctuating foreign currency, and that they don't see that lifting any time soon. 

 Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at the First Albany Corp pointed out: "What that's doing to the market is that it is creating a lot of doubt and worry." 

 Aerospace giant and Dow component Boeing fell 1-3/8 to 57-3/8 after Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown cut its near-term rating on the stock because of an expected growth slowdown in the airline industry. 

 Meanwhile, United Airlines' parent UAL advanced $1.38 to $39.25 after reporting a smaller-than-expected loss. 

 The Commerce Department issued some positive news, reporting that housing construction rose modestly in December. Last month's performance surprised analysts, who expected housing starts to fall because of bad weather and waning consumer confidence. 

Document sc00000020010714dx1j001y4
?
 

 Financial Post Investing 
 Microsoft and Sun don't disappoint: But bellwethers are less happy about health of economy 

 Simon Avery 
Financial Post
539 words
19 January 2001
National Post
FINP
National
D01 / Front
English
 (c) National Post 2001. All Rights Reserved. 

 MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. - Sun Microsystems Inc. and Microsoft Corp. met the Street's expectations with quarterly financial results yesterday and both stocks gained in after-hours trading. 

 But senior executives from each bellwether technology company said they were concerned about the overall health of the economy. Sun slightly lowered its revenue expectations for the rest of the year, while Microsoft said the outlook on information technology spending remains soft. 

 Microsoft posted profit for its second quarter, ended Dec. 31, of US$2.62-billion (US47 cents a share), up slightly from the US$2.44-billion (US47 cents) a year earlier on revenue of US$6.59-billion. 

 Following Microsoft's first profit warning in 10 years in December, analysts had cut their forecasts to an average US47 cents a share on sales of US$6.5-billion, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Before the warning, analysts had expected earnings of US49 cents a share. 

 Despite encountering an unexpected slowdown in demand in December, Sun reported a 56% year-over-year profit increase and 44% rise in sales for its second quarter, ended Dec. 31. Revenue, however, came in a fraction below expectations. 

 Sun posted net income, excluding investment gains and acquisition-related charges, of US$552-million (US16 cents), on sales of US$5.1-billion. Analysts on average had expected Sun to report profit of US16 cents a share on sales of US$5.29-billion, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 "Even with the market dynamics the way they are, we still gained more market share this quarter than in previous quarters," said Scott McNealy, chief executive of Sun Microsystems. 

 Orders for the second quarter were US$4.95-billion, a year-over-year increase of 32%. 

 In Europe, repeatedly blamed by the technology industry as a drag on performance, sales grew by 53%, said Michael Lehman, chief financial officer. 

 While warning that macroeconomic conditions remain challenging, Sun executives said they were upbeat about their business in the coming quarters. 

 The Palo Alto, Calif.-based company said it hired 700 engineers last quarter and will hire 2,000 new employees in the second half of the fiscal year. The ramp-up of its new microprocessor, the UltraSparc III, will enable Sun to gain at competitors' expense, Mr. Lehman said. The chip will be used in high-end computers that help run the Internet. 

 "We're going to continue to gain big-time market share," said Mr. McNealy. "The Internet is still widely unhyped and underutilized around the world." 

 Despite meeting their lowered targets, Microsoft executives said they remain concerned about softening PC demand and corporate IT spending. 

 The Redmond, Wash.-based software company is expanding into areas beyond the PC, including corporate network software, hand-held computer applications and video game hardware. At the moment, about 66% of Microsoft's sales come from PC software. 

 Microsoft shares (MSFT/NASDAQ) closed the regular trading session up US$2 9/16 at US$55 1/2, while Sun (SUNW/NASDAQ) closed up US$2 1/2 at US$34 7/8. 

savery@nationalpost.com

Document finp000020010711dx1j0045x
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Lehman Cuts Home Depot FY02 EPS View 

998 words
19 January 2001
15:20
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)



10:04 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq firmer, but off highs. Despite
pullback, traders say the market appears to have created a trend with
the recent firmer closes. "It's been a slow grind up, and that's a good
sign," one says. "It means we're consolidating." However, they're not
sure whether this is a short-term trend or something more substantial.
"We have to get much higher, back into the mid-3000s before we call this
more than a correction." (DMC)



9:48 (Dow Jones) EBay Inc. (EBAY) has bucked the trend of
less-than-rosy dot-com news, and its stock is soaring. The online
marketplace reported stronger-than-consensus revenue and EPS numbers of
$134M and 9c, respectively, Thursday night. Consensus was $125.5M and
7c. Analysts characterized eBay's various metrics as strong across the
board, despite the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile,
the company noted that a California court had dismissed a lawsuit
against eBay over allegedly fraudulent sports memorabilia. (RS)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The writing was on the wall for Home Depot (HD).
Rumors had been swirling about the company in the wake of its
competitors' woes, and, on Wednesday, Prudential cut the company to hold
from strong buy, saying it believed a profit miss and negative outlook
was on the way. (RJH)



9:40 (Dow Jones) Sara Lee (SLE) may be close to buying the baking
operations from Unilever NV (UN) for about $1.4 billion, according to
Deutsche Bank analsyt Eric Katzman. A Sara Lee spokeswoman wouldn't
comment and a Unilever official couldn't be reached. Katzman, who cites
unnamed "sources" for his information, said a deal could be announced as
early as next week. (CEG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq trade higher in early dealings,
supported by strong overnight trade. Floor traders say markets find
support from as-expected earnings from Microsoft (MSFT) and Sun (SUNW).
Focus remains on earnings and Jan. S&P options expiry. (DMC)



9:35 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen 15-25 cents a barrel lower early on,
retracing Thursday gains and in line with overnight losses. Seen
consolidating until market gets clearer picture of effect of supply cuts
versus easing demand, analyst says. Support for Feb. crude, down 22c to
$30.23 on ACCESS, seen at $30. Contract has resistance at $30.50. March
crude down 17c to $28.50 overnight. (MSX)



9:33 (Dow Jones) Foreseeing some negative risks that could knock the
biotech heavyweight off its perch, Credit Suisse First Boston analyst
Alex To lowered his opinion on Genentech Inc. (DNA) to buy from strong
buy and price target to $80 from $125. He cited upcoming competition to
Genentech's revenue driver Rituxan and the likely delay of
investigational asthma drug Xolair's market launch. To cut 2001 earnings
to 73 cents a share from 75 cents. (BMM)



9:25 (Dow Jones) Fed's Broaddus' reassuring remarks about economy -
less recession risk seen - haven't tipped Treasurys market expectations
in favor of 25 bp rather than 50 bp rate cut at Jan. FOMC, says fund
manager, because effect of very weak Philly Fed business index Thursday
persists. (JNP)



9:18 (Dow Jones) One interesting caveat included in the new Basel
Accord draft is that banks will get some relief for credit protection,
such as credit derivatives, provided these are watertight and the
provider has a rating of at least A, CS First Boston research notes.
(TL)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025j0
?
 

 Home Depot Outlook -3: 'Tremendous Pressure' On 4Q Sales 

117 words
19 January 2001
12:35
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 Home Depot said the tough economy has put "tremendous pressure" on fourth quarter sales. 

 The company said that many of the same economic factors affecting sales in the fourth quarter will persist in the first half of fiscal 2001, "arguing for a cautious near term outlook." 

 In recent weeks, several analysts trimmed their fourth quarter outlooks for Home Depot and Lowe's Inc. (LOW), Home Depot's main competition in the home-improvement retailer market. Some analysts cited a profit warning from Masco Corp. (MAS), the home-improvement industry's largest supplier, which said disappointing sales to home centers were largely to blame for its expected earnings shortfall. 

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025ak
?
 

 Business; Financial Desk 
 BRIEFLY / TECHNOLOGY AltaVista Cuts More Jobs Amid Ad Slowdown 

Bloomberg News
191 words
19 January 2001
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-2
English
 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company 

 AltaVista Co., a unit of CMGI Inc., said it cut 200 jobs, or about a third of its work force of about 600, to reduce expenses at the Internet search service after advertising revenue growth slowed. Meanwhile, CMGI said it was unlikely to meet previous earnings and revenue targets for fiscal 2001. The Andover, Mass.-based company said it would provide further guidance on March 31 when it reports fiscal second-quarter results. The job cuts at AltaVista follow the elimination of 225 jobs in September, or about a quarter of the company's work force of 900 at the time. The Palo Alto-based company added staff after the September reduction to focus on selling its Internet search technology to other businesses. Before that, AltaVista's revenue had come primarily from selling ads on its Web site. Shares of CMGI closed off 41 cents at $6.84 on Nasdaq, before the company issued its profit warning. 

  The stock has plunged 94% in the past year, leaving CMGI with a market value of about $2.18 billion. 

Document latm000020010712dx1j003vt
?
 

 Technology & Health 
 AMD's Surging Net Fails To Meet Expectations --- Drop in Demand Weighs on 4th-Quarter Results 

 By Molly Williams and Rebecca Buckman 
Staff Reporters
301 words
19 January 2001
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
N2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. reported lower-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings, hurt by a steep drop in demand in what is usually the strongest selling season for personal computers. 

 The Sunnyvale, California, chip maker said net income surged to $178 million, or 53 cents a diluted share, from $65 million, or 21 cents, a year earlier. Sales rose 22% to $1.18 billion from $968 million a year earlier. 

 AMD's improvement over the prior year was significant, as the company gained market share over rival Intel Corp. Indeed, Chief Executive W.J. Sanders III characterized 2000 as the best year in the company's history. 

 Yet the quarter's results came in below the numbers AMD officials had estimated last month when the company warned that sales and earnings would be hit by slow PC sales and a lackluster holiday selling season. After the warning, a consensus of analysts projected profit of 55 cents a share and sales of $1.2 billion, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 "We had a pretty low revenue number, and they came in $15 million below that, and they missed our earnings by a penny," said Drew Peck, an analyst with SG Cowen Securities in Boston. But "in this environment, people are still going to breathe a sigh of relief." 

 AMD and Intel are both struggling with slowing sales of PCs as companies and consumers cut back spending in the face of a slowing economy. Intel Tuesday reported fourth-quarter results that met lowered expectations, but was cautious about the first quarter. 

 AMD said Wednesday that it expects first-quarter sales will be up over last year. 

Document awsj000020010710dx1j0022j
?
 

 BC-TECH-MICROSOFT-EARNS (UPDATE 3???ft sees lower-tha. 

 By Scott Hillis 
779 words
18 January 2001
23:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 SEATTLE, Jan 18 (Reuters) - Software giant Microsoft Corp. said on Thursday its quarterly profits were virtually unchanged from a year ago, meeting lowered forecasts, and warned that earnings for the current quarter would be slightly lower than expected. 

 Microsoft, which makes the Windows operating system found on most personal computers, blamed weaker expected growth in personal computer sales and slower corporate spending on technology. 

 "Our biggest concern would be PC demand, and then secondly the level of increase in technology spending by corporations," Chief Financial Officer John Connors told Reuters in an interview after the announcement. 

 Microsoft is "looking for the fiscal year 2001 PC unit growth rate to be ... 10 percent at best," Connors said. Microsoft's fiscal year runs from July 1 through June 30. 

 Microsoft stock, which gained $2-9/16 to close at $55-1/2 on Nasdaq before the news, rose to $58-5/8 in after-hours trading on Instinet. 

 Microsoft stock has tumbled from a high of $116-1/16 a year ago amid fears over its antitrust battle with the U.S. government and technology industry woes. 

 "I think people are going through and not seeing any skeletons in the closet," Scott McAdams, president of Seattle-based brokerage McAdams Wright Ragen said of the rising share price. "I thought it was alright. I guess I was pleasantly surprised." 

 Microsoft warned that it expects earnings per share to be between 42 cents and 43 cents a share in the current quarter, down from current analyst estimates of 44 cents a share. It reported 43 cents a share a year earlier. 

 It repeated that earnings for the full fiscal year, which ends on June 30, are expected to be in the range of $1.80 to $1.82. 

 "If there is a negative, it's that their guidance is probably on the low end of what people were looking for. My guess is there's some conservatism in there, but who knows, it may be a lousy quarter," McAdams said. 

 "But they kept their guidance for the full year, so whatever they lose this quarter they think they'll make up in the next," he added. 

 SECOND QUARTER MEETS LOWERED EXPECTATIONS 

 Microsoft said net profits for its fiscal second quarter, which ended Dec. 31, were $2.62 billion, or 47 cents a share. That was up slightly from the $2.44 billion, or 47 cents a share, a year earlier, which excluded a one-time charge of 3 cents a share. 

 Analysts had cut their forecasts for the second quarter to an average 47 cents a share, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial, after the company issued a rare profit warning last month due to slowing PC sales and corporate technology buying. 

 Microsoft said second-quarter revenues were $6.59 billion, up 8 percent from the $6.11 billion a year earlier, Microsoft said. The company had projected that revenues would come in between $6.4 billion and $6.5 billion. 

 Although its profits were in line with the reduced expectations, Connors said Microsoft beat its sales forecasts due to a strong year-end sales push. 

 "In general our sales organization did a good job closing December, a little better than we had anticipated," he said. 

 Sales of Windows 2000 and its predecessor Windows NT rose 39 percent from a year earlier, with the more lucrative server product that powers corporate machines rising 20 percent, Connors said. 

 "We were very, very pleased with the momentum we have in the Windows business," Connors said. "We're particularly enthused with the momentum we have with Windows 2000 on the desktop and on the server." 

 Connors did not give absolute sales figures for Windows 2000, which was launched last February amid much fanfare, but said the company would likely publicize details for the one year anniversary of the product. 

 While Microsoft's MSN Internet access service and family of Web sites was still growing, Connors said the network would feel the effects of a recent downturn in advertising spending. 

 "We continue to be positive going forward, but it's going to be a more challenging market in general for advertising, whether that's Internet or traditional media, and we would be impacted by that," Connors said. 

 Asked about whether the bottom line was seeing a boost from Chief Executive Steve Ballmer's call last year to trim expenses, Connors said, "We're working very hard to evaluate where we can make trade-offs in expense growth rates to improve our profitability profile, but not at the expense of long-term success." 

Document lba0000020010712dx1i01cjm
?
 

 DaimlerChrysler outperforms DAX index, home rivals. 

292 words
18 January 2001
11:19
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 FRANKFURT, Jan 18 (Reuters) - Shares in DaimlerChrysler were outperforming the blue-chip DAX index and domestic rivals late on Thursday morning, boosted by heavy buying from the UK and by short-covering, traders said. 

 By 1106 GMT, its shares were up 1.86 percent at 48.08 euros. By contrast, domestic rival Volkswagen was down 1.11 percent while BMW AG was down 0.03 percent. The benchmark DAX was 0.56 percent lower. 

 DaimlerChrysler shares have almost halved their value in the last year as worries mount about losses at the company's U.S. Chrysler unit. The latest profit warning in December sent the shares to a four-year low of 42.70 euros at the end of December. 

 These worries contributed to Merrill Lynch's decision to pick DaimlerChrysler as its European "bear" auto stock for 2001, while it chose BMW as its "bull". 

 Traders noted a good deal of Thursday's buying was coming from the UK, but they declined to be more specific. 

 "We are now seeing short-covering lift the stock as some people feel it may have hit the bottom," said one trader. 

 He said the stock looks technically strong, having stayed above a previous resistance level of 46.80 euros. The next major resistance comes at 50 euros, he said. 

 Some traders also said the stock was helped by assurances from the company last week that the 2000 dividend was not in jeapordy, despite a deteriorating cash flow situation. 

 Earlier Deutsche Bank said it had cut its earnings per share forecasts for both BMW and Volkswagen citing the euro's strength against the dollar. 

 (Madeline Chambers, Frankfurt newsroom, +49 69 7565 1232, frankfurt.newsroom@reuters.com). 

Document lba0000020010712dx1i01c7n
?
 

 Microsoft Q2 earnings meet expectations. 

181 words
18 January 2001
21:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 SEATTLE, Jan 18 (Reuters) - Software giant Microsoft Corp. said on Thursday its quarterly profits were virtually unchanged from a year ago, meeting lowered forecasts, and cautioned that it expected a tough road ahead amid slowing computer sales. 

 Microsoft, which makes the Windows operating system found on most personal computers, said net profits for its fiscal second quarter, which ended Dec. 31, were $2.62 billion, or 47 cents a share, up slightly from the $2.44 billion, or 47 cents a share, a year earlier. 

 Analysts had cut their forecasts for the quarter to an average 47 cents a share, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial, after the company issued a rare profit warning last month due to slowing PC sales and corporate technology buying. 

 Before the announcement, Microsoft shares closed at $55-1/2 on Nasdaq, up $2-9/16, or 4.8 percent. The stock has tumbled from a high of $116-1/16 a year ago amid fears over its antitrust battle with the U.S. government and technology industry woes. 

Document lba0000020010712dx1i01bvw
?
 DaimlerChrysler Chairman Pursues Vision of Global Auto Influence 

493 words
18 January 2001
Knight Ridder Tribune Business News - KRTBN
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2001 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Even as the Chrysler acquisition was turning sour, Schrempp continued to pursue the vision that drove him into the deal to start with -- to create a truly global motor business producing not only luxury cars but also a full range of vehicles for the mass market in all the key regions of the world. 

 So, last year, four months before what amounted to the first Chrysler profit warning, he paid euro2.1 billion (UKpound 1.3 billion) for a 34 percent stake in debt-laden Japanese carmaker Mitsubishi Motor Corporation. Then in July the company strengthened its US base by paying US$600 million (UKpound 405 million) to take full control of engine manufacturer Detroit Diesel and C$670 million (UKpound 303 million) for Canadian heavy truck builder Western Star. 

 This was followed in September by the purchase of a 10 percent stake in South Korea's Hyundai Motor with the option to buy a further 5 percent within three years. 

 The scale of DaimlerChrysler's commitment to Schrempp's vision of a global motor industry giant makes BMW's spending on Rover look like small change in comparison. But having got this far down the road, there is no way back for the Stuttgart juggernaut. Shareholders, as well as executives and the DaimlerChrysler dealer network, will have to tighten their belts. A dividend cut this year could drive this message home. 

 Deutsche Bank analyst Christian Breitsprecher is already pencilling in a euro370 million loss for the first quarter of 2001. The anticipated slump in US car sales is likely to produce an operating loss for Chrysler for the whole of 2001, in addition to heavy restructuring charges. 

 "It is an industrywide problem. General Motors and Ford are suffering, too, and we just cannot tell yet how bad it is going to get," says an industry analyst. But, he adds, Chrysler is suffering worst in part because its models are aging and it did not react quickly enough to the softening of the market earlier last year. 

 Schrempp may not be popular with DaimlerChrysler's big shareholders, especially American billionaire Kirk Kerkorian. But last week Rolf Breuer, the chief executive of Deutsche Bank, which still owns 11.9 percent of the company, gave him a fulsome vote of confidence. So suggestions that he is about to be asked to leave are looking wide of the mark. 

 So, too, is speculation that DaimlerChrysler is looking for ways to dump its American acquisition, perhaps opening itself up to a GM or Ford takeover. It is not just that neither of these companies are in such rude good health that they could realistically launch an offer. Daimler, with more than 200,000 employees in Germany, remains one of the commanding heights of the country's economy. Germany Inc may not be what it was but it is not about to let Daimler go the same way as Mannesmann. 

Document krtbn00020010711dx1i007iz
?
 

 AMD Net Surged in 4th Quarter, But Failed to Meet Expectations 

 By Molly Williams and Rebecca Buckman 
Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
615 words
18 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal
J
B3
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Corrections & Amplifications 

 ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES Inc.'s earnings were 21 cents for the fourth quarter 1999, 57 cents for the first quarter 2000 and 60 cents for second quarter 2000. A chart yesterday accompanying an article about AMD's earnings showed incorrect earnings for those periods, because they failed to reflect a stock split. (WSJ Jan. 19, 2001) 

 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. reported lower-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings, hurt by a steep drop in demand in what is usually the strongest selling season for personal computers. 

 The Sunnyvale, Calif., chip maker said net income surged to about $178 million, or 53 cents a diluted share, from $65 million, or 21 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 22% to $1.18 billion from nearly $969 million a year earlier. 

 AMD's improvement over the prior year was significant, as the company gained market share over rival Intel Corp. Indeed, Chief Executive W.J. Sanders III characterized 2000 as the best year in the company's history. 

 Yet the quarter's results came in below the numbers AMD officials had estimated last month when the company warned that sales and earnings would be hit by slow PC sales and a lackluster holiday selling season. After the warning, a consensus of analysts projected profit of 55 cents a share and sales of $1.2 billion, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 "We had a pretty low revenue number, and they came in $15 million below that, and they missed our earnings by a penny," said Drew Peck, an analyst with SG Cowen Securities in Boston. But "in this environment, people are still going to breathe a sigh of relief." 

 AMD and Intel are both struggling with slowing sales of PCs as companies and consumers cut back spending in the face of a slowing economy. Intel Tuesday reported fourth-quarter results that met lowered expectations, but was cautious about the first quarter. 

 AMD said yesterday it expects first-quarter sales will be up over last year, but no better than flat compared with the just-ended quarter. Sales for this year could grow as much as 15%, the company said, which would lead to 2001 profit of $2 a share. 

 Mr. Peck, however, called those projections "pretty aggressive," saying he expects "a price war of unbelievable proportions" in the industry. 

 But on a conference call with analysts and reporters, Mr. Sanders said, "we don't see as grim an outlook . . . We do not see a price war." 

 AMD said it expects to ship between six million and 6.5 million total PC processors in the first quarter. It added that demand for its Athlon processors, especially those running at speeds of one gigahertz or higher, was very strong in the just-ended period. Sales of Duron, AMD's low-cost processor, weren't as strong because of a lack of availability of a chipset to work with the processor. But supplies of that chipset have been increasing, the company said, and "we sold more than we had expected" during the quarter, a spokesman said. 

 Company officials said the blended, average selling price for its microprocessors in the quarter was around $81, but should be in the range of $90 to $100 this year. 

 AMD held its market share in the quarter at about 17%, as Intel lost a small amount of market share in the quarter, according to Mercury Research. Intel accounted for about 81.7% of the market, down slightly from the 81.9% it had in the third quarter. 

Document j000000020010711dx1i002f0
?
 

 Microsoft's Net Income Meets Lowered Estimates But Company Issues Guarded Outlook 

570 words
18 January 2001
22:01
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 REDMOND, Wash. -- Microsoft Corp. posted earnings that were in line with lowered expectations but issued a cautious outlook for the current quarter that would put earnings and revenue below current Wall Street expectations. 

 The software giant posted fiscal second-quarter net income of $2.62 billion, or 47 cents a diluted share, up 7.7% from $2.44 billion, or 44 cents a share a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial expected Microsoft to post a profit of 47 cents a share for the period, which ended Dec. 31. 

 Revenue rose 7.7% to $6.59 billion from $6.11 billion a year earlier. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) said it remains "guarded about the near-term economic outlook and its impact on PC demand and technology spending." 

 For the fiscal third quarter ending March 31, the company said revenue is expected to be in the range of $6.3 billion to $6.4 billion, resulting in earnings of 42 cents to 43 shares. Analysts were expecting a profit of 44 cents in the quarter, according to First Call. 

 Microsoft had warned in December that its quarterly revenue and earnings would come in below analysts' forecasts. It was the first profit warning by the company in more than 10 years. 

 At the time, Microsoft said revenue for its fiscal second quarter ending Dec. 31 would fall 5% to 6% below expectations, coming in at $6.4 billion to $6.5 billion. As a result, Microsoft said then that it expected to post a profit of 46 cents to 47 cents a share, compared with the then mean estimate of 49 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Microsoft blamed the shortfall on a decrease in information-technology spending and a slowdown in personal-computer sales. 

 Aaron Scott, analyst at Tucker Anthony Capital Markets, said he was impressed by the strength of Microsoft's server software sales in the quarter -- something that had been long awaited and runs counter to the fears of slowing corporate spending on technology. 

 In a conference call with analysts and the media, Chief Financial Officer John Connors said the company will focus on improving its operating profit in the near term with an eye to reining in its expense growth. He later added Microsoft has no plans for spending cutbacks or layoffs, but is looking across the company at improving efficiencies and might combine or eliminate some initiatives. 

 Microsoft executives also acknowledged that the company's consumer Internet properties, such as its MSN Internet service, are facing the challenges that have beset most Internet companies. 

 For example, although MSN now has more than four million subscribers, a greater-than-expected number joined through its $400 rebate program so MSN's net revenue was less than expected in the December quarter. Nonetheless, Microsoft executives said they were committed to the long-term success and profitability of its Web businesses. 

 Microsoft executives also said the adoption of Windows 2000 for businesses is progressing at a "healthy rate" despite weak PC sales. In the final weeks of the December quarter, Microsoft closed a good deal of business and it appears that those companies that had planned to upgrade to Windows 2000 this year have been able to set aside the budgets to do so. 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020010711dx1i009ad
?
 

 Microsoft Hits Lowered 2Q Views And Backs FY01 Targets 

 By Marcelo Prince 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
794 words
18 January 2001
22:28
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) posted fiscal second-quarter results that met reduced expectations thanks in part to stable sales of its Windows operating system and Office suite, despite lingering concerns about the health of the personal computer market. 

 The software titan, which startled investors with a warning on Dec. 14 that it could not meet second-quarter sales and profit forecasts, was cautious about its near-term outlook. 

 In a statement Thursday, John Connors, its chief financial officer, said he remains "guarded" about the near-term economic outlook and its impact on PC demand and technology spending. 

 But investors were relieved and analysts were heartened because Microsoft reiterated its latest financial targets for the balance of its fiscal year, which ends in June. That suggests its business hasn't deteriorated further since its pre-announcement 30 days ago. 

 "They are not dumping any new bad news on us," said Richard Sherlund, analyst at Goldman Sachs. "There is no change in the guidance going forward, which would suggest the bad news is already baked into the stock" and it could enjoy a modest relief rally Friday. 

 Microsoft shares, which fell 63% last year - erasing some $400 billion in market value - have rallied 28% so far this year. They ended Thursday at $55.50 and traded as high as $59 in after hours trading on the Island ECN. 

 Despite signs at some high-tech firms that last year's problems are worsening and fears of an IT spending slowdown, Microsoft managed to post December results at the top end of its pre-announced range and maintained its guidance for fiscal 2001. 

 When it warned of a shortfall in mid-December, Microsoft predicted sales would come in between $6.4 billion and $6.5 billion and earnings would be in a range of 46 cents to 47 cents. Previously, analysts had expected revenue of roughly $6.8 billion and earnings of 49 cents. 


Thursday, Microsoft said December quarter sales were $6.59 billion, up
8% from a year ago's $6.11 billion. Quarterly net income was $2.62
billion, up 7% from a year ago's $2.43 billion. On a per share basis,
its earnings were 47 cents, in line with the new consensus estimate.
   Its top-line was driven by healthy server software sales and the
surprising resilience of its desktop Windows sales, which offset
continued softness for its Office suite.    Desktop applications and
platform sales rose just 4% from a year ago, notes Goldman's Sherlund,
but "we had kind of braced for a little worse and server business was
up 21% which was good as expected."



In its third quarter, Microsoft said revenue would decline
sequentially to a range from $6.3 billion to $6.4 billion, while
earnings would be 42 cents to 43 cents a diluted share. The consensus
estimate was 44 cents, according to First Call/Thomson Financial.



For the fiscal year, Microsoft reiterated its forecasts of revenue of
$25.2 billion to $25.4 billion with earnings between $1.80 and $1.82 a
diluted share.



Aaron Scott, analyst at Tucker Anthony Capital Markets, said he was
impressed by the strength of Microsoft's server software sales in the
December quarter - something that had been long awaited and runs counter
to the fears of slowing corporate spending on technology.



Enterprise software sales, which include its SQL Server database and
Exchange Server software, rose 21% from a year earlier to $1.24 billion
in the fiscal second quarter. Sales in this segment had shown lackluster
year-over-year growth of about 10% in each of the past three quarters.



Meanwhile, desktop platform sales, which include Windows 2000 and
Windows Me, rose 10% from a year earlier to $2.01 billion. And desktop
applications, which include its popular Office suite, pulled in $2.49
billion in sales - a slight decline from the year earlier period.



Deferred, or unearned, revenue rose to $5.1 billion at the end of
December, up from $4.77 billion in September. Microsoft officials
attributed the rise to an increasing number of multi-year corporate
licenses.



Income from the Redmond, Wash., concern's giant cash hoard and
investment portfolio was $750 million, below what most analysts had
expected and the lowest level in five quarters because the company took
a $446 million loss due to an accounting rule change for derivatives.



Still the total amount of Microsoft's cash and short-term investments
at the end of December was $26.9 billion, up 9% from $24.7 billion at
the end of September.



-By Marcelo Prince, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5244
marcelo.prince@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010711dx1i0252v
?
 

 News 
 Morgan, Fleet See Better '01 

 BY LIZ MOYER, ALISSA LEIBOWITZ, and NIAMH RING 
1,305 words
18 January 2001
American Banker
AMB
1
Vol. 166, No. 12
English
Copyright (c) 2001 Thomson Financial, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. and FleetBoston Financial Corp. could hardly have had more different fourth quarters, with Fleet's profits edging higher and Morgan Chase's profits tumbling, but both said moves made late last year should mean improvements to the bottom line early in 2001. 

 Profits at Morgan Chase slid 68% in the fourth quarter, to $708 million, because of higher expenses, losses from private equity investments, and a general slowdown in capital markets. Executives at the company, the product of the just-concluded merger of Chase Manhattan Corp. and J.P. Morgan & Co., forecast double-digit revenue growth -- in excess of what either predecessor company had anticipated. 

 Fleet said net income rose 7%, to $774 million, in line with estimates of 84 cents a share. Profits got a boost from last month's sale of $1.35 billion of problem loans to a New York fund manager, a move the company said should also spell an improvement to this year's results. 

 Five other banking companies reported mixed results Wednesday as the effects of charges, problem loans, and sluggish revenues from investment banking overshadowed gains in fee income. The day was also notable for the companies that fell short of estimates. Bank One Corp. surprised Wall Street the most by reporting a loss where most expected at least a small gain. (See story, page 1) 

 Still, analysts said the bad news brought the promise of improvement this year, especially in light of anticipated rate cuts by the Federal Reserve. "With the Fed tailwind, the second half of the year will likely be a lot better than what you saw in the fourth quarter," said Ronald Mandle, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein & Co. 

 Summit Bancorp said profits fell 19.3%, to $125.1 million, or 77 cents a share, in line with estimates. State Street Corp. reported a 40.6% profit decline, to $148 million, or 90 cents a share, 2 cents below estimates. Its fourth-quarter 1999 earnings featured one-time gains. 

 J.P. MORGAN CHASE 

 Results for the full year declined 23.6%, to $5.73 billion. Even excluding one-time merger charges and even after a December profit warning, $715 billion-asset banking company's per-share earnings of 37 cents fell 9 cents short of estimates. Morgan Chase took $1.25 billion of merger charges in the fourth quarter, mostly related to severance. The company offset the charge with $1.23 billion of gains from the sale of several businesses, including retail operations in Hong Kong. 

 Fourth-quarter expenses rose 24%, to $5.7 billion, and costs for the full year climbed 19%, to $21.3 billion, not including the merger charges. Morgan Chase executives said they had to abide by compensation promises made to investment bankers that joined the company in a series of acquisitions by Chase starting in late 1999. 

 During a presentation Wednesday, executives from the company said the rise in expenses was "unacceptable," and they vowed to hold costs this year to $21.5 billion. 

 One way to hold back costs is to fire people. Last year Chase and J.P. Morgan said they would eliminate 5,000 jobs in the merger. So far 1,600 jobs have been cut, including 800 in the investment banking operations. Geoffrey Boisi, vice chairman and head of investment banking, said another 1,000 jobs would be cut in his area in the next two months. 

 Marc J. Shapiro, vice chairman of finance and risk management, said the integration was progressing. He forecast 10% to 12% annual revenue growth for the combined company based on projected cross-selling of corporate and investment banking services. "That is higher than what was possible at either of the legacy companies," Mr. Shapiro said. 

 Fourth-quarter revenues from investment banking rose 20%, to $3.7 billion, but expenses in the group rose 37%, to $2.8 billion. Fees from mergers and acquisitions advisory gained 41%, to $407 million, and underwriting fees rose 8%, to $644 million. Total trading related revenue declined 8%, to $1.3 billion. Private equity investing led to a $92 million loss, compared with a gain of $1.62 billion a year earlier. 

 Revenues from investment management and private banking rose 39%, to $894 million. Revenues from consumer services rose 1%, to $2.6 billion. 

 Morgan Chase's shares fell 0.35% to $53. 

 FLEETBOSTON 

 Eugene M. McQuade, vice chairman and chief financial officer, said the positive results were partly aided by the company's ability to get some problem loans off its books last month, when it sold the loan portfolio to Patriarch Partners LLC. 

 "We think we've aggressively addressed the problem loan issue for right now," he said in a telephone interview Wednesday. "It's positioned us to see some better earnings in the first half of 2001." 

 Profits were also boosted by some positive results in traditional banking business lines, which helped offset a "weakness" in the capital markets, Mr. McQuade said. Fourth-quarter revenues from capital markets dropped 28%, to $536 million. 

 "Our retail distribution is doing well, our credit card business did particularly well, and we're seeing continued improvement in consumer credit quality," he said. 

 Nonperforming assets, meanwhile, fell 10% from the third quarter, to $925 million, thanks to last month's sale of troubled loans. "There's no question that this improved the quality of the earnings," said Mark Fitzgibbons, an equity analyst with Sandler O'Neill & Partners. 

 Credit quality will continue to dog banks at least for a while, he said. "Fleet and many other large regional banks are likely to have their fair share of large problem credits coming out of the woodwork in the next couple of months." 

 Meanwhile, the end of 2000 marked the first full year of the operation of FleetBoston -- Fleet Financial Group acquired BankBoston Corp. in 1999. Now the company is poised to acquire Summit Bancorp of Princeton, N.J. That deal, which is set to close in early March, will lead to an after-tax charge of about $500 million, Mr. McQuade said. 

 Fleet shares fell 1.64% to $41.1875. 

 SUMMIT 

 A change-in-control provision forced Summit to take a one-time charge of $21.2 million for outstanding restricted stock in preparation for its upcoming purchase by Fleet. 

 For the year, Summit reported a 16% rise in net income, to $513.6 million. 

 Fourth-quarter income from fees rose 19.9%, to $118.1 million. Net interest income rose 3.2%, to $341.7 million. 

 Nonperforming assets rose 82.7% from a year earlier, to $33.8 million. 

 Summit's stock fell 1.78% to $41.3125. 

 STATE STREET 

 Excluding the effect of gains in 1999, the Boston banking company's fourth-quarter profits rose 24.4%, on gains from fiduciary fees derived from investment services, new business from existing clients in the United States and Japan, and new clients in Europe. 

 Revenue from investment management fees through State Street Global Advisors fell 22.6%, to $130 million. Again, revenues for the corresponding period in 1999 included revenue from pension business that have since become part of CitiStreet, a joint venture with Citigroup Inc. 

 Revenue from securities processing and investment management services, the mainstays of the company's business, enabled operating profits to grow. Ronald O'Kelley, chief financial officer, said this is "a strong indication of State Street's ability to perform in down markets." 

 Expenses rose 4%, to $653 million, because of a larger staff and higher salaries, which were slightly offset by lower transaction processing services expenses, the company said. 

 State Street's stock fell 4.16% to $110. 

 photo, Marc Shapiro, Eugene McQuade, James Dimon 

Document amb0000020010927dx1i000bd
?
 

 Financial Post 
 Big steel blues: Dofasco short again: Second  profit warning 

 Peter Fitzpatrick 
Financial Post
444 words
18 January 2001
National Post
FINP
National
C01 / Front
English
 (c) National Post 2001. All Rights Reserved. 

 Dofasco Inc. issued its second earnings warning for the fourth quarter yesterday, a further reflection of the woes of the troubled steel sector. 

 The Hamilton, Ont.-based steel maker said that while it expects a small profit when it reports results Feb. 2, its earnings will be below the already down-gauged 15 cents-to-22 cents per share expectations of analysts. 

 In issuing the warning, Dofasco is following the lead of its rival and neighbour, Stelco Inc., which issued an earnings warning Monday. 

 "A rapid decline in market conditions in the month of December at Dofasco's Steel Operations, Gallatin Steel and Quebec Cartier Mining Co. operating segments contributed to significantly lower earnings than previously anticipated," the company said in a statement. 

 "Dofasco attributes the decline in earnings to continued high levels of often unfairly traded steel imports into Canada, dramatically reduced demand from a number of key steel-consuming sectors, particularly automotive, further decline in prices for its products and escalating energy costs." 

 The country's second-largest steel producer declined further comment. 

 It's the second time Dofasco has had to beat down expectations for the quarter. In mid-December it warned that estimates of 30 cents-to-45 cents per share were about twice as high as warranted. 

 In yesterday's statement it said it still expects "a modest profit for the quarter, subject to yearend adjustments that may yet occur." 

 It did not say if the worsening results will affect dividends or capital expenditures, although in its December warning it said strong cash flow would allow it to preserve these items. 

 World Markets, said the warning was not a big surprise given the turmoil in the world steel industry. 

 She issued several downward target revisions for Canadian steelmakers yesterday including Dofasco. 

 Dofasco's warning came after the close of markets yesterday, where its shares closed up 45 cents at $23.05. The 52-week range is $19.05 to $30.20. 

 On Tuesday, the day after Stelco said it expects a $50-million loss for the final quarter of 2000, its shares tumbled 22%. 

 Steelmakers have long been under pressure, which has been compounded by recent cutbacks in auto production and the alleged underpricing by certain foreign producers. 

 The federal Customs and Revenue Agency plans to investigate a complaint from Dofasco, Stelco and other steel producers that imports from such countries as China, India, Malaysia, Portugal and Russia are hurting the domestic industry by depressing prices. 

 Imports of steel into Canada rose about 50% in 2000, according to industry figures. 

pfitzpatrick@nationalpost.com

Document finp000020010711dx1i003jf
?
 

 Business; Financial Desk 
 EARNINGS ROUNDUP GE Hits Forecasts With Double-Digit Growth 

From Times Wire Services
1,580 words
18 January 2001
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-3
English
 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company 

 General Electric Co. said Wednesday its fourth-quarter earnings rose 16%, in line with expectations, led by strength in its power systems, plastics and GE Capital Services units. 

 Chief Executive Jack Welch also said the company expects "significant layoffs" once it completes its acquisition of Honeywell International Inc. 

 GE, the world's biggest company in terms of stock market capitalization, said growth overseas and online businesses also helped earnings rise to $3.59 billion, or 36 cents a share, from $3.09 billion, or 31 cents, in the year-earlier quarter. Revenue was up 6% to $34.98 billion. 

 For the full year 2000, GE said, income grew 19% to $12.74 billion, or $1.27 a share, on a 16% gain in revenue to $130 billion. 

 "GE's double-digit increases in 2000 again demonstrate the benefits of the company's continuing emphasis on globalization, growth in services, Six Sigma quality and e-business," Welch said. 

 "The strength of our long-cycle businesses combined with our ongoing initiatives--globalization, Six Sigma, product services and e-business--and our new leadership give us enormous confidence that 2001 will be another record year of double-digit earnings increases." 

 Six Sigma is a complex quality-control initiative that Welch has championed across the entire corporation since the mid-1990s. 

 Welch would not estimate the number of layoffs or say when the jobs would be cut. But he said the layoffs will be fueled by three factors: volume slowdowns, increased efficiency as Internet initiatives mature and eliminations of duplicate positions in the two companies. 

 GE's Power Systems division, which makes gas turbines and other power generation equipment, had the strongest growth during the quarter, with earnings up 44%. That was followed by the company's plastics division, with a 21% gain. 

 Aircraft engines and technical products and services each had an 18% profit increase, while earnings at GE Capital, the company's financial services unit, rose 16%. 

 At television network NBC, profit was up 10%. 

 The only unit to show a decline was industrial products and systems, where profit fell 15% in the quarter. 

 Profit at GE's appliances division was flat. 

 Separately Wednesday, GE's appliances division suffered another blow with the announcement that its general manager, Linda Goodspeed, had quit to be president of an Internet company. 

 Goodspeed, who was in charge of operations, product development, manufacturing, procurement and marketing, joined PartMiner Inc., an online provider of content, technology and procurement services, PartMiner said. 

 "I wanted a more creative growth environment," Goodspeed said. 

 Slower economic growth has some analysts cutting profit forecasts for General Electric this year. Credit Suisse First Boston analyst Michael Regan cut his forecast Wednesday to $1.45 from $1.50 a share, excluding Honeywell. Regan maintained his "buy" rating on the stock. 

 General Electric's businesses most closely tied to swings in the economy include appliances, broadcasting, plastics, lighting and motors, analysts said. 

 At a Glance 

 Other earnings, excluding one-time gains or charges unless noted, include: 

 AIRLINES 

 * AMR Corp., parent of American Airlines, said fourth-quarter profit fell 36% to $56 million, or 34 cents a share, because of storm-related flight cancellations and higher fuel costs, but the results beat forecasts of 30 cents. Sales rose 8.3% to $4.86 billion, helped by increases in passengers and fares. 

 * America West Holdings Corp., parent of America West Airlines, posted a fourth-quarter loss of $32.1 million, or 95 cents a share, much deeper than the 44-cent loss analysts anticipated, as fuel costs rose and it canceled flights because of winter storms and a reorganization of its maintenance procedures. The company had earnings of $20 million, or 52 cents, in the year-earlier quarter. Sales edged up 0.7% to $573 million. 

 * Continental Airlines Inc. bucked a mostly downward trend in the airline industry, posting a 31% rise in fourth-quarter profit to $38 million, or 61 cents a share, beating expectations of 58 cents, on strong passenger revenue growth. Sales grew 13% to $2.43 billion. 

 * US Airways Group Inc. reported a fourth-quarter loss of $89 million, or $1.33 a share, much deeper than the $1.05-a-share loss analysts expected. The carrier blamed higher fuel costs and competition, and a glut of capacity, from low-cost airlines and major network carriers. Revenue rose 10% to $2.36 billion. 

 FINANCIAL SERVICES 

 * Bank One Corp. posted a fourth-quarter loss of $512 million, or 44 cents a share, instead of an expected profit of about the same amount, amid rising loan losses, charges and reserves for bad loans. The bank had posted profit of $411 million, or 36 cents, in the year-ago quarter. Among the huge charges that resulted in a loss, Bank One increased its allowance for possible loan defaults by $1 billion. * City National Corp., known as the banker to Hollywood movie stars, said fourth-quarter profit rose 18% to $33 million, or 68 cents a share, matching analyst forecasts, on higher deposits and investment management fees. Average deposits at Beverly Hills-based City National, which topped $9 billion in assets for the first time, rose 25% to $6.9 billion. 

 * FleetBoston Financial Corp. posted a 6.6% increase in fourth-quarter profit to earn $774 million, or 84 cents a share, boosted by strength in its traditional businesses of retail and small-business lending. 

 * J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., formed when Chase Manhattan Corp. bought J.P. Morgan & Co., said fourth-quarter profit fell 65% to $763 million, or 37 cents a share, hurt by investment losses in its venture capital unit as the stock market plunged. Wall Street had expected the bank, which warned of lower results last month, to earn 45 cents a share. Operating revenue fell 12% to $7.57 billion, while expenses rose 24%. J.P. Morgan Chase also said trading revenue fell 14% to $1.27 billion. 

 OTHER INDUSTRIES 

 * Ameritrade Holding Corp. said its fiscal first-quarter loss widened to $23 million, or 13 cents a share, from $22 million, or 12 cents, as operating expenses rose 14%. The online brokerage said revenue grew 13% to $148 million, with commission revenue up 5.8% to $82 million. 

 * Boeing Co. said fourth-quarter profit rose 36% to $877 million, or $1.01 a share, far exceeding analyst expectations of 91 cents, as it squeezed more cash out of its sprawling aerospace businesses. Revenue declined 3% to $14.7 billion, hurt by lower deliveries of its commercial jets. Boeing said research and development spending surged to $974 million from $315 million. 

 * Harley-Davidson Inc. said fourth-quarter earnings rose 26% to $93.9 million, or 31 cents a share, beating estimates of 29 cents, as the motorcycle maker's revenue grew 14% to $756 million. The company also boosted its 2001 production target. 

 * Visx Inc., the leading maker of laser eye surgery equipment, said fourth-quarter profit dropped 32% to $17.5 million, or 17 cents a share, and warned that earnings in the first quarter and full-year 2001 will miss analyst forecasts. Sales plunged 43% to $42.5 million on slowing demand for surgery and lower fees from doctors. Analysts expected earnings of 16 cents, revised down from 20 cents in December, when the company issued a profit warning. 

 Bloomberg News was used in compiling this report. 

 (BEGIN TEXT OF INFOBOX / INFOGRAPHIC) 

 Earnings Reports 

 A sampling of companies reporting quarterly earnings Wednesday, ranked by year-over-year earnings-per-share (EPS) growth, compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial. 


                        Analysts'          % above/  Year-    Year-
                Ticker       est.  Actual     below    ago  over-year
Company         symbol        EPS     EPS  estimate   qtr.  % change
Sanmina         SANM        $0.32   $0.34       +6%  $0.14    +143%
KLA-Tencor      KLAC         0.55    0.57        +4   0.26    +119
Extreme Net     EXTR         0.11    0.11         0   0.06     +83
Kinder Morgan   KMI          0.41    0.43        +5   0.25     +72
Mercury Int.    MERQ         0.24    0.28       +17   0.17     +65
Allegheny       ATI          0.32    0.32         0   0.22     +45
Tyco            TYC          0.56    0.57        +2   0.46     +24
State Street    STT          0.92    0.90        -2   0.73     +23
Synovus         SNV          0.24    0.26        +8   0.22     +18
Auto Data       ADP          0.36    0.36         0   0.31     +16
Household       HI           1.03    1.03         0   0.92     +12
Summit Bancorp  SUB          0.77    0.79        +3   0.73     +8
Biogen          BGEN         0.46    0.47        +2   0.44     +7
SouthTrust      SOTR         0.72    0.73        +1   0.69     +6
Willamette      WLL          0.74    0.78        +5   0.75     +4
Wachovia        WB           1.26    1.26         0   1.30     -3
Jefferies       JEF          0.50    0.52        +4   0.56     -7
Citrix          CTXS         0.15    0.16        +7   0.19     -16
Delphi          DPH          0.32    0.36        13   0.48     -25
Eastman Kodak   EK           0.68    0.68         0   1.27     -46



Notes: NM = not meaningful. A loss in any period makes percentage
change not calculable.



Year-over-year growth and percentage changes are based on
earnings-per-share figures  and may differ from percentage changes based
on total profit.



For more information on First Call, check
www.firstcall.com.


 GRAPHIC-TABLE: Earnings Reports; 

Document latm000020010712dx1i003cj
?
 

 UPDATE 2-Enodis serves up  profit warning , shares hit. 

 By Braden Reddall 
399 words
17 January 2001
10:54
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Jan 17 (Reuters) - Shares in Enodis Plc dived on Wednesday after the world leader in catering equipment warned that first-half profits from its core division would fall "some way short" of last year's strong performance. 

 But the British company, formerly known as Berisford, added that the outlook continued to be uncertain and good progress was expected to bring improvement for the year as a whole. 

 The stock dropped to a two-year low of 168 pence in early London trade, and was down 43 pence or 20 percent at 173-1/2 by 1040 GMT. It has underperformed the FTSE All Share index by 47 percent in the last 12 months. 

 Investment bank CSFB cut its price target to 320p from 360p because of the earnings downgrade, but maintained its "buy" rating given that the valuation of Enodis made it possible other companies would be interested in buying the food equipment business. 

 "Corporate activity would appear to be the main impetus for short-term performance from here together with hopes for a genuine soft landing in North America," CSFB said in a note. 

 HIGH INVENTORY LEVELS WEIGH 

 As it had warned in November, Enodis said a store closure programme at one of its major clients hit its U.S. retail business in an already tough market. 

 Catering equipment sales were held back by high inventory levels at the end of last year, Enodis added. 

 The shortfall in the retail business would stack up against a strong comparative first-half operating profit figure in the previous year of 11.7 million pounds ($17 million), or nearly twice as much as in the second half of that year. 

 CSFB cut its pre-tax profit estimate to 100 million pounds from 110 million and earnings per share to 34.0p from 37.4p. 

 Enodis is cutting costs by eliminating surplus retail capacity and group purchasing, but it said these actions would mainly help the second half. It is also increasing its focus on its core business. 

 "We are exploiting opportunities to build market share and deliver synergy benefits across our food equipment businesses," Enodis said in a statement due to be delivered to its annual general meeting of shareholders on Wednesday. 

 Enodis said its consumer and building products division continued to trade well, in line with expectations. 

Document lba0000020010712dx1h031fa
?
 

 Expenses, Slow Mkt Drags J.P. Morgan Op Income Down 65% 

 By Tara Siegel 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
1,026 words
17 January 2001
14:46
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Expenses that outpaced revenue growth, coupled with a dismal quarter on Wall Street, conspired to drag down fourth-quarter profits at the newly merged J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM) a whopping 65%, and below expectations by 8 cents a share. 

 The bank earned $763 million, or 37 cents a diluted share, excluding items, compared with $2.18 billion, or $1.09 a diluted share last year. Special items include a merger-related charge of $1.25 billion, offset by non-recurring gains of $1.23 billion tied to a sale of its Hong Kong retail business and the transfer of a business to another entity. 

 A consensus estimate of 17 analysts anticipated earnings of 45 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Most Wall Streeters were originally expecting the company to earn 70 cents to 80 cents a share, but the First Call estimate tumbled to 45 cents after the company issued a profit warning in mid-December. 

 Problem loans were conspicuously absent. However, operating revenue fell 12% to $7.6 billion - it rose 10% excluding the bank's private equity unit J.P. Morgan Partners - while expenses ballooned 24%. 

 "The operating leverage will absolutely change," said Marc Shapiro, a J.P. Morgan Chase vice chairman, during a premarket conference call with the media. He explained that the increases reflect the buildup of its investment banking platform - notably the inclusion of its acquired companies Hambrecht & Quist and Robert Fleming Holdings - and a number of guaranteed compensation contracts. 

 Meanwhile, the slumping Nasdaq weighed on results at J.P. Morgan Partners, which posted a loss of $92 million, compared with gains of $1.62 billion a year ago. Volatile earnings there is an old story that the company has said doesn't fit neatly into the quarterly earnings periods. The Nasdaq was battered during the quarter and the values of the public-portion of the portfolio suffered along with it; the decline in value must be marked to market value whether or not Chase realizes any losses of gains. The largest decline in valuations stemmed from investments in the telecommunications and technology sectors, including Triton PCS Holding Inc. (TPCS) and Telecorp PCS (TLCP). 

 "We try not to pay attention to the swings in reported results," Vice Chairman Shapiro said. Despite the decline, the private equity portfolio maintains a quote value of 2.7 times its original cost. Of the $12 billion portfolio, about $2 billion are public securities, added Dina Dublon, J.P. Morgan Chief Financial Officer, during the call. 

 Investment banking saw operating revenues rise 20% to $3.67 billion, led by strong growth in advisory fees and the addition of H&Q and Flemings. Trading revenues (including net interest income), however, declined 14% to $1.27 billion, largely due to widening credit spreads on results in emerging markets and North American credit markets. Fees and commissions rose 54% to $448 million, thanks to higher equity brokerage commissions and its acquisitions. Cash operating expenses rose 37%. 

 The company said it set long-term goals for itself: annual revenue growth of 10% to 12%, cash earnings per share growth of 15% annually, and an average cash return on equity of 20% to 25%. 

 Investment banking results were generally weak, said David Berry, director of research at Keefe Bruyette & Woods, when compared with its peers. 

 Overall, "the issues boil down to what kind of environment are we going to have and can they manage expenses effectively," Berry said, "Over the past few quarters, they have not. They have just raised their expense savings guidance in December arising from the merger, and I'd assume some of that would get them out of the hole they are in on the expense side." 

 At Treasury and Securities Services, quarterly profits rose 9% to $907 million, driven by robust growth in its custody operations given growth in net assets, new business, and higher volumes. Investment management and private banking posted operating revenues of $894 million, up from $645 million last year 

 Retail and middle-market banking had operating revenues of $2.56 billion, up only 1% from the previous quarter. While credit-card revenues and regional banking were up, the sale of operations in Hong Kong and Panama partially offset those positives, the company said. 


   Credit Picture Looks Comparatively Favorable



While corporations defaulting on their loan payments has been a huge
problem for banks across the board, notably Bank of America Corp. (BAC),
J.P. Morgan Chase, like Citigroup (C), didn't have any major problems
surface last year.



"While there will be more (credit) deterioration, we will fare well in
a competitive sense and it won't be meaningful to the bottom line," Vice
Chairman Shapiro said.



Losses from its commercial portfolio were $159 million for the fourth
quarter, down from last year's $282 million, but up from the $83 million
in the prior quarter due to increased charge-offs in its foreign
commercial loan portfolio.



Meanwhile, consumer charge-offs (including securitizations) were $495
million, which excludes a $93 million charge to conform to new a
regulatory policy. Excluding the charge, consumer charge-offs were down
5% from the year-ago quarter, but up 4% from the preceding third
quarter. On the consumer front, we've "seen a declining trend for the
past two years," Shapiro said, "Our best guess is that is coming to an
end."



As for the bank's exposure to the California utility companies on the
brink of bankruptcy, Shapiro said however the situation plays out there
it won't have a dramatic impact on earnings. He also said that no one
industry group accounts for more than 6% of its total exposures.



Nonperforming assets were down slightly from the prior quarter at
$1.92 billion.



"Given everything that is going on (within the industry, results are)
pretty good," Berry said.



The company began a meeting with analysts at 11 a.m. EST.



-By Tara Siegel; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5288;
tara.siegel@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010711dx1h0228w
?
 

 NO U-TURN FOR THE STUTTGART JUGGERNAUT 

485 words
17 January 2001
The Evening Standard
NS
English
(c) 2001

 Even as the Chrysler acquisition was turning sour, Schrempp continued to pursue the vision that drove him into the deal to start with - to create a truly global motor business producing not only luxury cars but also a full range of vehicles for the mass market in all the key regions of the world.So, last year, four months before what amounted to the first Chrysler profit warning, he paid e2.1 billion (#1.3 billion) for a 34% stake in debt-laden Japanese carmaker Mitsubishi Motor Corporation. 

  Then in July the company strengthened its US base by paying US$600 million (#405 million) to take full control of engine manufacturer Detroit Diesel and C$670 million (#303 million) for Canadian heavy truck builder Western Star.This was followed in September by the purchase of a 10% stake in South Korea's Hyundai Motor with the option to buy a further 5% within three years.The scale of DaimlerChrysler's commitment to Schrempp's vision of a global motor industry giant makes BMW's spending on Rover look like small change in comparison. But having got this far down the road, there is no way back for the Stuttgart juggernaut. Shareholders, as well as executives and the DaimlerChrysler dealer network, will have to tighten their belts. A dividend cut this year could drive this message home.Deutsche Bank analyst Christian Breitsprecher is already pencilling in a e370 million loss for the first quarter of 2001. The anticipated slump in US car sales is likely to produce an operating loss for Chrysler for the whole of 2001, in addition to heavy restructuring charges."It is an industrywide problem. General Motors and Ford are suffering, too, and we just cannot tell yet how bad it is going to get," says an industry analyst. But, he adds, Chrysler is suffering worst in part because its models are aging and it did not react quickly enough to the softening of the market earlier last year.Schrempp may not be popular with DaimlerChrysler's big shareholders, especially American billionaire Kirk Kerkorian. But last week Rolf Breuer, the chief executive of Deutsche Bank, which still owns 11.9% of the company, gave him a fulsome vote of confidence. So suggestions that he is about to be asked to leave are looking wide of the mark.So, too, is speculation that DaimlerChrysler is looking for ways to dump its American acquisition, perhaps opening itself up to a GM or Ford takeover. It is not just that neither of these companies are in such rude good health that they could realistically launch an offer. Daimler, with more than 200,000 employees in Germany, remains one of the commanding heights of the country's economy. Germany Inc may not be what it was but it is not about to let Daimler go the same way as Mannesmann. 

Document ns00000020010714dx1h000ay
?
 

 Companies: Intershop Plans to  Cut  30% Of Its Work Force in the U.S. --- Company Also Intends to Streamline Operations 

 By Chris Reiter 
Dow Jones Newswires
404 words
16 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
13
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 BERLIN -- Intershop Communications AG sought to address its revenue problems, saying it would cut 30% of its work force in the U.S., but the move is seen as only a small step toward reorganizing the company. 

 The electronic-commerce software company said it would cut 80 positions from its U.S. staff. It also plans to consolidate several "global functions" in order to streamline operations and allow its U.S. organization to focus on generating revenue. 

 The company needed to do something to cut costs, after recently issuing a profit warning on its fourth-quarter earnings. 

 "The U.S. market is an integral part of our global growth strategy, and this reorganization will enable us to better target enterprise sales, gain greater penetration in key markets, and expand our network of strategic partners," Intershop's Chief Executive Officer Stephan Schambach said. 

 The company declined to give details on the jobs that were being cut, the expected savings, or on other restructuring changes, saying more details will be released when the company reports its final 2000 earnings. 

 "I see it as a positive that they're taking steps they need to take," said Sal. Oppenheim analyst Michelle Lang. She described the move, however, as "small." 

 The short-term savings of the U.S. staff cuts alone aren't going to help the company turn the corner, however, with analysts estimating the savings at some $6 million (6.3 million euros). 

 That compares with $7 million spent by the company on U.S. marketing costs in the third quarter last year alone, noted Ms. Lang, who recommends that investors reduce their holdings in the company. 

 The U.S. also isn't the only problem for the company. 

 "Asia is not running as it should up to now," said Commerzbank analyst Lorentia Jung, who expects further restructuring that will go on through the first half of the year. 

 Although the company is cutting jobs, which are expected to be mainly in the administrative and research and development departments, it's expected to continue to build up staff in sales and consulting, areas which were clearly lagging behind in the fourth quarter. "They definitely have to expand sales" in the U.S., said Ms. Jung, who rates the company at hold. 

Document wsje000020010713dx1g000wj
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Toronto stocks dip at open on profit-taking. 

350 words
16 January 2001
15:47
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TORONTO, Jan 16 (Reuters) - Toronto stocks started Tuesday slightly lower as investors took a conservative approach at the start of earnings season and indulged in profit-taking after a slight rally in the previous session. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index was down 44.32 points, or 0.5 percent, at 8734.22. Volume of 11.2 million shares, about average for opening trade, worth C$178.5 million changed hands. 

 Market momentum was still undecided with 273 shares falling and 261 rising. 

 Overall, nine of the 14 subindexes of the TSE 300 were down. The industrial products sector, which includes Nortel and represents nearly 40 percent of the TSE 300, was down 1.3 percent. 

 "Investors remain apprehensive about what's to come. Most investors believe (the bad news) has been discounted. At the same time, however this does not provide them with a foundation from which to become overly excited," said George Vasic, a strategist at UBS Bunting Warburg. 

 Bellwether Nortel Networks Corp was down 85 Canadian cents at C$48.40. Wireless company Research In Motion Ltd was down C$7.20 at C$83.05 after a rally in the previous session. 

 "The market is still looking for direction. I think it is cautious ahead of heavy duty earnings," said John Kinsey, portfolio manager at Caldwell Securities. 

 Traders and analysts there was good news from from Citigroup Inc and Pepsi Bottling Group Inc. that provided a glimmer of hope to beleaguered North American stock markets. 

 But disappointing results from Bank of America Corp. could dampen spirits. And investors waited anxiously for The results from Intel Corp. ., General Motors , Microsoft Corp. , Nortel, all due this week. 

 Shares of Canada's biggest steelmaker, Stelco Inc , lost 93 Canadian cents to C$3.45 after it issued a fourth-quarter profit warning on Monday. 

 None of the subindexes of the TSE 300 were up substantially. The financial services sector was up 0.13 percent. 

 The metals and minerals sector was down nearly 1 percent. 

 ($1=$1.50 Canadian). 

Document lba0000020010712dx1g0331l
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Toronto stocks end lower, earnings anxiety mounts. 

 By Amran Abocar 
561 words
16 January 2001
22:31
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TORONTO, Jan 16 (Reuters) - Toronto stocks ended lower in muted activity on Tuesday as market players sat on their hands and waited for earnings results from technology heavyweights Nortel Networks and Intel Corp. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index closed 34.54 points, or 0.39 percent, lower at 8744.00 points on volume of 135.6 million shares worth C$2.71 billion. The market struggled to keep positive momentum but decliners just eased past advancers 529 to 513 with another 274 issues ending flat. 

 "This is the first week of full-tilt fourth-quarter earnings both here and south of the border so the market is really full of anxiety and apprehension on that," said Peter Chandler, vice-president at Canaccord Capital. 

 "People are at odds. Most people want to believe that we're in a bottoming process but nobody's prepared to put a whole lot of money out on that assumption. It's a show-me phase: Show me the market has bottomed and I'll join the party." 

 The blue-chip S&P/TSE 60 index finished off 3.11 points, or less than 1 percent, at 516.21 points. 

 Investors were watching for earnings from key tech firms Intel Corp - which came out after markets closed on Tuesday - and Nortel Networks Corp. , whose results are expected on Thursday. 

 Intel, the world's largest chipmaker, reported fourth-quarter results that just beat already lowered expectations. But, due to flagging personal computer sales, the company forecast first quarter sales would fall about 15 percent from the fourth quarter level. 

 "It should help the opening (Wednesday) look better. With the big move in the Dow and Intel's numbers not being terrible, it should help," said one Toronto trader. 

 In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average closed up 127.29 points, or 1.21 percent, at 10,652.66 points, while the Nasdaq composite index fell 7.95 points, or 0.30 percent, to 2618.55 points. 

 Overall, eight of the TSE 300's 14 subindexes closed lower, led down by a 1.43-percent decline in the industrial products sector. 

 In that group, Nortel closed C$1.10 lower at C$48.05, Research in Motion fell C$9.00 to C$81.25, JDS Uniphase lost C$3.25 at C$75.50, and Celestica Inc. was off C$1.45 at C$92.00. 

 Elsewhere in the sector, Stelco Inc. which issued a profit warning a day earlier, ended the session off 92 Canadian cents at C$3.46. 

 In pipelines, down 0.83 percent, Enbridge Inc fell 55 Canadian cents to C$36.45 while Westcoast Energy closed off 45 Canadian cents at C$31.40. 

 Also lower were media, consumer products, golds, oil and gas and pipelines. 

 On the upside, the conglomerates and metals and minerals sectors both saw more than 1 percent gains, while financial services recovered late in the day to close up 0.51 percent. 

 The influential banking sector got a boost from strong earnings from several U.S. financial services companies including Citigroup and Wells Fargo and Co.. 

 Four of Canada's Big Six banks closed higher with Bank of Montreal and Bank of Nova Scotia ending on negative turf. 

 ($1=$1.50 Canadian). 

Document lba0000020010712dx1g0308e
?
 

 U.S. railroads seen posting weak Q4 earnings. 

     By Jamie LaReau 
848 words
16 January 2001
21:13
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

     NEW YORK, Jan 16 (Reuters) - Nicholas Kovich, a retired 

 Wall Street portfolio manager, plans to hold onto his shares of 

 Union Pacific Corp. even though U.S. railroads are 

 expected to report weak fourth-quarter earnings because of a 

 slowing economy, high fuel prices and tough winter conditions. 

     Kovich, a former managing director at Morgan Stanely Dean 

 Witter, said Union Pacific is one of his biggest holdings. 

 While he sees short-term earnings pitfalls ahead for the 

 overall railroad sector, by the end of the year it will be back 

 on track and headed for solid gains, he said. 

     "We're going to see a resurgence of coal demand and the 

 psychology toward coal is going to change dramatically as an 

 alternative toward firing electric utility plants," Kovich said 

 in a telephone interview with Reuters. "We've already seen a 

 couple utilities announce they were going to build a couple of 

 new coal fired power plants." 

     Railroads, which carry a range of products for consumers 

 and producers, would benefit by a resurgence in coal, a fuel 

 that could see higher demand because of the nation's energy 

 crisis. However, the rebound is not expected anytime soon. 

     Union Pacific, the largest U.S. railroad, on Dec. 28 warned 

 its fourth-quarter earnings will miss expectations and that it 

 will cut 4 percent of its workforce. Union Pacific said it 

 expects to report earnings of 87 cents to 90 cents a share, 

 down from analysts' consensus estimate of 93 cents a share. 


    Earlier in December, Norfolk Southern Corp.	



announced a profit warning, triggering Wall Street to slash



estimates on the entire sector.



    PROBLEMS STILL PLAGUE INDUSTRY



    U.S. railroads are expected to begin reporting earnings



Thursday, but a combination of deteriorating fundamentals will



keep corporate railroad earnings idle, until oil prices, which



in turn effect diesel fuel prices, drop, said Jill Evans, an



analyst at J.P. Morgan & Co.



    Fuel prices are as much as 70 percent higher than at the



same time last year.



    "For year over year, fuel costs will cost each of the big



four U.S. rails between seven cents and about 30 cents in



earnings per share," Evans said. "In margin, between about 260



basis points to 500 basis points. That's assuming fuel costs



remain flat."



The stalling U.S. economy also reduce the amount of cargo



railroads carry. Third-quarter gross domestic product in the



United States was 2.2 percent, less than half the 5.6 percent



growth pace of the second quarter.



Blistery winter weather is another reason in the gloomy



earnings outlook this season. The weather impacted railroad



traffic and their ability to efficiently deliver freight, not



to mention, the costs to clean the rail tracks and remove snow



and debris, said Doug Rockel, an analyst at ING Barings.



Rockel noted that winter is nowhere near its end and with



only one interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve, an



economic recovery is not at hand yet.



LOOKING AHEAD



Many railroads, which Rockel did not name, have not earned



an adequate rate of return on some merger investments they



made, Rockel said. While some railroads have done a good job



restructuring and cutting costs, many are still suffering from



past mergers ... owing too much debt and carrying too many



assets and encumbered by a big labor force.



    "To me the glass is still half empty, it's not half-full,"



Rockel said. "Maybe the railroads will tell you it's half full,



but that's not good enough. You've got to get the service back



and you've got to make good margins to make money to justify



the investments they've made."



The strong U.S. dollar against the yen also is hurting



railroads, a major conduit for grain shipments abroad, he



said.



"Our railroads export a lot of grain potentially to Asia



and when the dollar's as strong as it is, it's likely that the



Asians will buy Australian grain instead of American grain,"



Rockel said.



Union Pacific and Canadian National Railway Co.



are the best performers because they've been able to offer new



services and take back some market shares from competitors,



Evans said.



    "They have some more cushion on the top line, but it's



still pretty small growth on the revenue line," she said.



    Kovich is long-term bullish on the industry, believing that



once interest rates come back in line, fuel prices dip and new



energy policies in the incoming administration of



President-elect George W. Bush go into effect, railroads will



bode well and earnings will bounce.



The following shows First Call/Thomson Financial



fourth-quarter earnings-per-share consensus estimates for U.S.



railroad companies, as well as reported results for the third



and second quarters of 2000.



COMPANY					  Q4 est.  Q3 '00  Q2 '00
Burlington Northern Santa Fe		.64	 .68     .60
CSX Corp.					 .32	 .28     .26
Norfolk Southern Corp.			.07	 .14     .26
RailAmerica				     .16	 .16     .24
Union Pacific Corp.			   .90	1.00     .96.


Document lba0000020010712dx1g02zx3
?
 

What's News
 Report on Business: The Wall Street Journal 
 United States 

Wall Street Journal
142 words
16 January 2001
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B14
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 Intershop Communications AG said it will cut 30 per cent of its U.S. work force as the once highflying European Internet software company struggles with a sagging stock price. The top European maker of e-commerce software platforms said it would cut 80 positions in the United States, but wouldn't say which offices were targeted for the layoffs or what the expected savings would be. The German concern, with U.S. headquarters in San Francisco, has operations in New York; Denver; Chicago; Charlotte, N.C.; and Alexandria, Va. The job cuts come as part of a global restructuring program intended to cut costs, to be detailed on Jan. 31. Intershop's share price has plummeted this month after it issued a fourth-quarter profit warning. 

Document glob000020010711dx1g0033e
?
 

 German Web Co. Cutting US Work Force 

212 words
16 January 2001
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2001 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - Internet software company Intershop Communications AG said Monday it will cut 30 percent of its U.S. work force as it struggles with a sagging stock price. 

 Intershop, a European e-commerce platform maker, said it would cut 80 positions from its U.S. staff, but would not say which offices were targeted for the layoffs or what the expected savings would be. 

 The company has its U.S. headquarters in San Francisco, but also has operations in New York, Denver, Chicago, Charlotte and Alexandria, Va. 

 The cuts come as part of a global restructuring program intended to reduce costs, which will be detailed by the company on Jan. 31. The company saw its share price plummet this month after it issued a fourth-quarter profit warning. 

 "The U.S. market is an integral part of our global growth strategy, and this reorganization will enable us to better target enterprise sales, gain greater penetration in key markets, and expand our network of strategic partners," Intershop's chief executive Stephan Schambach said in a statement. 

 Intershop expects fourth-quarter revenue between $26.3 million $28.2 million, below its earlier forecast of $37.6 million and $47 million. 

AP-Intershop-Job-Cuts; D79I6TAO0

Document asp0000020010710dx1g00en2
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Toronto stocks rise in listless trading. 

 By Amran Abocar 
565 words
15 January 2001
22:45
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TORONTO, Jan 15 (Reuters) - Toronto stocks staged a small late-day rally to close higher on Monday but activity was muted in the absence of direction from U.S. markets, which were closed for a public holiday. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index closed up 62.14 points, or 0.71 percent, at 8778.54 on a thin volume of 82.8 million shares worth C$1.51 billion. In the overall market, advancers easily outstripped decliners 605 to 391 with another 242 ending flat. 

 "It's a big yawn," said Jeff Cheah, a strategist at Standard & Poor's MMS. 

 "Interest rate sensitive stocks did well today as well as the oil and gas sector, but overall you can't really say that there's a lot of direction...given the absence of any market-moving news today. Also the liquidity wasn't there with the U.S. markets closed," Cheah said. 

 Markets south of the border were closed for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. 

 The blue-chip S&P/TSE 60 index closed up 3.06 points, or 0.59 percent, at 519.32 points. 

 Cheah said uncertainty about upcoming corporate earnings - including heavyweight Nortel Network Corp.'s highly anticipated Thursday release - prompted investors to tread cautiously on Monday. 

 "Results could sway the market's direction in a significant way," he said. "There's still not a clear sense of what the earnings are going to be like. We all know the economy is slowing (but) there is the debate about how fast...so everyone is taking a very cautious approach going into this earnings season." 

 All but one of the 14 TSE 300 subindexes closed up on Monday led by more than 1-percent gains in the financial services, consumer products, oil and gas, merchandising, and pipelines sectors. 

 In financial services, up 1.19 percent, all of the Big Six banks closed higher, led by Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce , up 70 Canadian cents at C$46.50. Elsewhere in that sector, Fairfax Financial rose C$3.70 to C$266.00, Sun Life Financial gained C$1.20 to C$33.70 and Manulife Financial rose 70 Canadian cents to C$37.75. 

 In consumer products, which rose 1.02 percent, biotech firm Angiotech Pharma rose C$2.00 to C$59.50 while Biovail Corp. rose 94 Canadian cents to C$59.94. 

 In pipelines, which closed up 1.48 percent, Enbridge Inc. rose C$1.00 to C$37.00. 

 Modest increases came in the industrial products group - home to the tech stocks - which was up 0.41 percent. Conglomerates was up 0.53 percent while utilities rose 0.54 percent. 

 In the industrial products group, Nortel closed 85 Canadian cents lower at C$49.15 while Research In Motion rose C$5.25 to C$90.25 and Sierra Wireless gained C$5.00 to end at C$68.25. 

 Canada's biggest steelmaker, Stelco Inc. , issued a profit warning after markets closed, saying it expected a loss of 50 Canadian cents a share in the fourth quarter. Stelco's class A shares had closed up 18 Canadian cents at C$4.41. 

 The paper and forestry products sector, off 0.13 percent, was the lone group in negative territory. 

 ($1=$1.50 Canadian). 

Document lba0000020010713dx1f00o3j
?
 

 Intershop's US Job Cuts Not Enough To Fix Problems 

 By Chris Reiter 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
540 words
15 January 2001
15:15
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 BERLIN -(Dow Jones)- Intershop Communications AG (ISHP) Monday sought to address its revenue problems, saying it would cut 30% of its workforce in the U.S., but the move is seen as only a small step toward reorganizing the electronic-commerce software company. 

 Intershop said it would cut 80 positions from its U.S. staff. It also plans to consolidate several "global functions" in order to streamline operations and allow its U.S. organization to focus on generating revenue. 

 The top European e-commerce platform-maker needed to do something to cut costs, after issuing a profit warning on its fourth-quarter earnings a couple weeks ago. 

 "The U.S. market is an integral part of our global growth strategy, and this reorganization will enable us to better target enterprise sales, gain greater penetration in key markets, and expand our network of strategic partners," Intershop's Chief Executive Officer Stephan Schambach said in a statement. 

 The company declined to give details on the jobs that were being cut, the expected savings, or on other restructuring changes, saying more details will be released when the company reports its final 2000 earnings. 

 "I see it as a positive that they're taking steps they need to take," said Sal. Oppenheim analyst Michelle Lang. She described the move, however, as "small." 

 The short-term savings of the U.S. staff cuts alone aren't going to help the company turn the corner, however, with analysts estimating the savings at some $6 million. That compares with $7 million spent by the company on U.S. marketing costs in the third quarter last year alone, noted Sal. Oppenheim's Lang, who recommends that investors reduce their holdings in the company. 

 The U.S. also isn't the only problem for the company. "Asia is not running as it should up to now," said Commerzbank's Jung, who expects further restructuring that will go on through the first half of the year. 

 Although the company is cutting jobs, which are seen to be mainly in the administrative and research & development departments, it's expected to continue to build up staff in sales and consulting, areas which were clearly lagging in the fourth quarter. 

 "They definitely have to expand sales (in the U.S.)," said Commerzbank analyst Lorentia Jung, who rates the company at hold. 

 Intershop expects fourth-quarter revenue of EUR28 million to EUR30 million, well below its earlier forecast of EUR40 million to EUR50 million. As a result, it will lose more than expected, with a 2000 net loss figure of between EUR37 million to EUR39 million forecast, compared with a previously expected loss of about EUR10 million. 

 The profit warning by one of the New Economy's more successful companies sent shockwaves through the market and caused Intershop shares to lose nearly 70% of their value. 

 At 1509 GMT, Intershop shares were enjoying a modest recovery, up 12%, or EUR1.04, at EUR10.02 in response to the company's job-cut decision. 

 Company Web site: http://www.intershop.com

 -By Chris Reiter, Dow Jones Newswires; +49 69 2972 5500; chris.reiter@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx1f007t8
?
 

 Intershop to slash 30 pct of workforce in US 

326 words
15 January 2001
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 HAMBURG, Germany, Jan 15 (AFP) - Intershop, the German maker of e- commerce software, said on Monday it would slash up to 30 percent of its workforce in the United States in order to become profitable again following a disastrous fourth quarter last year. 

 Intershop said in a statement that in the first phase of a global restructuring programme it would cut around 80 jobs in the US with immediate effect. 

 "At the same time, worldwide functions will be combined to make the company more efficient," the statement said. 

 The US activities would in future focus more on distribution, consulting and other activities. 

 Further details of the restructuring programme would be published on January 31 when Intershop would also publish full fourth-quarter and full-year earnings. 

 "We are determined to improve our efficiency worldwide in order to become profitable again as quickly as possible," said chairman Stephan Schambach. 

 Intershop shares have nosedived on the stock exchange after the company issued a profit warning for the fourth quarter of last year and consequently for the year as a whole in early January. 

 The former leading light of the high-growth Neuer Markt subsequently announced that it would rethink strategy in the United States where sales fell 80 percent short of expectations. 

 Intershop expects to post a net loss of 30-32 million euros (28- 30 million dollars) in the fourth quarter of 2000, exceeding estimated fourth-quarter sales of 28-30 million euros. 

 For the full year, Intershop expects to post a net loss of 37-39 million euros on sales of 121-123 million euros, equivalent to net loss per share of 0.44-0.47 euro. 

 Nevertheless, the company insists that the disappointing fourth quarter was not related to competitive pressures or the longer term prospects for e-business software vendors, but to the postponement of six or seven big contracts in the US. 

 spm/wai 

Document afpr000020010709dx1f00lkt
?
 

 US tech firms likely to post dismal Dec-quarter results. 

 By Jennifer Lien. 
704 words
15 January 2001
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2001 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

 Even networking equipment makers hit by slowing economy 

 IT is looking like a dismal earnings season for US tech companies - and it looks like things will have to go down further before they go up. 

 A recent chorus of profit warnings has triggered a series of downgrades by analysts. The main reason for the wave of warnings: one of the worst Christmas shopping seasons in recent history for PC makers, and for makers of corporate electronic equipment, a sudden slide in orders. 

 In particular, makers of networking equipment, long thought to be relatively immune to a slowing US economy, have reported surprising weakness in recent weeks. Cisco Systems, which just last month gave a bullish picture of its business, stunned investors on Wednesday when its chief executive John Chambers warned of a "more challenging" than expected current quarter. 

 Even the hot wireless market has not been spared, with market leader Nokia - just a few weeks ago the darling of punters - announcing on Tuesday that its handset sales in 2000 had been lower than analysts had expected. 

 For computer giants like Hewlett-Packard and Sun Microsystems, whose fortunes depend on large corporations' orders for computing equipment, December's unexpectedly weak performance will take a toll on sales and profits. December is usually a strong month for corporate sales, as companies seek to use up their budget allocations by year-end. 

 In an internal cost-cutting memo to staff last month, Sun's chief executive Scott McNealy said: "There is no question that the US economy is cooling off, especially in the dotcom environment. Since March, things have been slowing down incrementally with some amazing deceleration in the last couple of months." 

 In a conference call-cum-profit warning on Friday, HP chief executive Carly Fiorina said: "December was like somebody turned the lights out. Consumer spending in the US slowed below even our own conservative estimates, and corporate spending decelerated sharply." 

 Among PC makers that have warned of lower-than-expected December-quarter results are Compaq, Apple, and Gateway, which last week revealed it had fallen short of already-reduced estimates. Analysts have also cut their earnings forecasts for Dell Computer. 

 In the semiconductor segment, a two-year-old resurgence looks about to end, with market researchers recently slashing their 2001 sales forecasts. Chip giants Intel and Lucent have already issued profit warnings, while analysts have cut their estimates for Motorola, based on recent discouraging reports. 

 Software is also suffering: Microsoft made a profit warning in December, while in another recently-hot sector, business-to-business e-commerce software, marketplace software developer Ariba on Friday warned of slowing sales growth. 

 Complicating the picture are rising oil prices, which have pushed energy prices dangerously high, not just in California, but in the colder northern regions. 

 The prospect of rising energy prices is deterring consumers from buying computers, and it is also driving up costs for manufacturing companies. 

 After several years of excess, big tech firms are starting to go into austerity mode. Apart from Sun, HP is planning to freeze staff wages for a few months, while Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer last month called for employees to "re-ignite the kind of cost-conscious culture that marked Microsoft's earlier years", adding that the company would start controlling "discretionary expenditures like travel and entertainment". 

 Looking forward, things are not expected to recover in the first half of the year although several variables may still give hope. Said Morgan Stanley Dean Witter analyst Gillian Munson in a report: "We see another round of lowered guidance when Q4 results are released, probably with 20 to 30 per cent downside for earnings." 

 "Fundamentals are likely to be disappointing through at least the first half," Merrill Lynch analysts Steven Milunovich and John Roy said in a recent report. "Tech profit growth could slide to 10 per cent in 2001 from 32 per cent in 2000, with corporate tech spending up 16 per cent versus 26 per cent in 2000." 

 But they added: "The news should improve in the second half as likely Fed rate cuts begin to affect the economy and earnings momentum improves on easy comparisons." 

Document stbt000020010715dx1f000ay
?
 

Investment - Shares
Stocks to be affected by US inactivity

Robert Guy   
498 words
15 January 2001
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
Late
3
English
Copyright 2001. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

Equities

Australian stocks are likely to start the week on a muted footing, with a modestly weaker session for Wall Street stocks on Friday and a public holiday on Monday in the US not providing a positive lead for domestic investors.

Analysts said the domestic sharemarket would continue to be buffeted by the opposing forces of likely cuts to interest rates in coming months and the prospect of more profit warnings from corporate Australia.

The three primary US indices posted declines of less than 1 per cent on Friday, despite relatively positive economic data, and that weakness may be reflected in the Australian market this morning.

Capping losses in US stocks was the release of better-than-expected retail sales and producer price index data for December.

December PPI was unchanged compared to forecasts of a 0.1 per cent rise, while retail sales rose 0.1 per cent.

Trading is likely to be muted because Wall Street will be closed until Tuesday because of the Dr Martin Luther King public holiday.

Domestic fund managers continued to face a challenging investment environment, having to pay regard to more earnings downgrades, as well as the likely benefits of a cut to interest rates.

Many defensive sectors and stocks have been well bid in recent months, given the outlook for the economy, but have faded in appeal because of their less compelling valuations.

Some cyclical sectors have enjoyed a return of investor favour in recent weeks, buoyed by the prospect of cuts to official interest rates, but questions remained about whether a full return to these companies would be premature.

"A defensive mindset to stock selection is still justified," JP Morgan's strategy team said in a research note.

"The ability of companies to deliver on near term earnings and the integrity of any growth path continue to be important considerations."

"However, the possibility that the market may start looking through to the next upcycle in specific instances also needs to be countenanced," the broker said.

Copper producer MIM Holdings was the latest company to deliver a profit warning to investors.

Last week, the company announced that its first-half result would fall short of the $52 million booked at the same time last year, and far short of analysts' expectations of a result close to $80 million.

Investors smashed the company's shares 19.8 per cent lower, pushing it to a seven-month low.

The market may get a boost this morning from News Corporation, as News' ADR's closed 1.8 per cent higher in New York on Friday.

BEST AND WORST SECTORS Jan 1 - Jan 11



BEST

Media				12.81%

Food & House Goods		6.50%

Building Materials			4.34%

Tourism & Leisure			3.53%

Divers Industrial			2.45%



WORST

Investors & Financial Services	-3.25%

Infrastructure & Utilities		-3.29%

Developers & Contractors		-3.38%

Insurance			-3.61%

Other Metals			-9.52%



Source: Bloomberg

Document AFNR000020111228dx1f00lix
?
 

 German Web Co. Cutting US Work Force 

212 words
15 January 2001
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2001 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - Internet software company Intershop Communications AG said Monday it will cut 30 percent of its U.S. work force as it struggles with a sagging stock price. 

 Intershop, a European e-commerce platform maker, said it would cut 80 positions from its U.S. staff, but would not say which offices were targeted for the layoffs or what the expected savings would be. 

 The company has its U.S. headquarters in San Francisco, but also has operations in New York, Denver, Chicago, Charlotte and Alexandria, Va. 

 The cuts come as part of a global restructuring program intended to reduce costs, which will be detailed by the company on Jan. 31. The company saw its share price plummet this month after it issued a fourth-quarter profit warning. 

 "The U.S. market is an integral part of our global growth strategy, and this reorganization will enable us to better target enterprise sales, gain greater penetration in key markets, and expand our network of strategic partners," Intershop's chief executive Stephan Schambach said in a statement. 

 Intershop expects fourth-quarter revenue between $26.3 million $28.2 million, below its earlier forecast of $37.6 million and $47 million. 

AP-Intershop-Job-Cuts; D79HM00O0

Document asp0000020010710dx1f00dof
?
 Daily Mail, London, Market Report 

 Cliff Feltha M 
710 words
13 January 2001
Knight Ridder Tribune Business News - KRTBN
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2001 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 EDDINGTON PILOTS BACK TO A NEW HIGH: Captain Rod Eddington has helped British Airways take to the skies again. The airline's new chief executive clambered into the cockpit last April and after a brief period of turbulence, has piloted the price from 261 pence to a new high for the year of 437 pence, up another 12 pence yesterday. 

 Big city investors have warmed to his plans to focus long-haul routes at Heathrow, and tackle rationalisation without the confrontation caused by previous boss Bob Ayling. He still faces problems. The slowdown in the US economy is bound to hit cross-Atlantic traffic, while the rising oil price has probably added another UKpound 300 million to bills. 

 But BA could be over the worse, with broker Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein naming the airline its favourite in the sector, and advising clients to buy, as does Commerzbank. Bumper Christmas traffic, helped by chaos on the railways, has pushed up budget priced easyJet to 405 pence, against 336 pence in December, with Ryanair 4 pence up at 689 pence. 

 Elsewhere, tech stocks perked up on the continuing improvement on the Nasdaq market, Autonomy 123 pence higher at 1985 pence, Logica 100 pence at 1600 pence, Dimension Data 32 pence at 431 pence, and ARM 30 pence at 550 pence. 

 The FTSE 100, edgy to see how Wall Street reacted to crucial US sales figures, closed 50.6 up at 6165.5. Wall Street was 100 off in early trading, as hopes dimmed of another early interest rate cut. 

 Software group Sema jumped 35 pence to 355 pence, on talk that Europe's leading IT management consultant Cap Gemini is thought keen to buy France Telecom's 16 percent as a launchpad for a full takeover. Sema has looked vulnerable since a profit warning late November, blaming problems on a US offshoot. The shares were UKpound 18 a year ago. 

 High Street electrical chain Dixons' strong New Year sprint ran out of steam, easing 5 pence at 269 pence, after Deutsche Bank expessed concerns over the strength of the personal computer market. 

 Supermarket group Somerfield has jumped from 49 pence mid-summer to 89 pence, and could be on Sainsbury's shopping list, once it pockets the UKpound 635 million from the sale of DIY chain Homebase. 

 Plumbing and building supplies group Wolseley fell 8 pence to 450 pence, after rain slowed December sales growth. 

 Discount clothing chain Matalan, slaughtered by a trading statement which wiped a third off its value, began the long haul back, gaining 14 pence at 494 pence. But another High Street clothing casualty, Next, lost a further 11 pence at 770 pence. 

 US research showed AstraZeneca's new cholesterol lowering drug Crestor was more effective than Pfizer's Lipitor. Crestor is one of five new drugs AstraZeneca hopes will plug the gap left by the demise of ulcer drug Losec. Martin Hall of HSBC said it was not yet clear how the Anglo Swedish group could convert the new data into a strong sales pitch. The shares eased 8 pence at 3087 pence. 

 Rival drug group GlaxoSmithKline jumped the final regulatory hurdle in its UKpound 827 million acquisition of US Senso-dyne toothpaste maker Block Drug, but finished 24 pence off at 1774 pence. 

 An upbeat trading statement from pottery group Churchill China served up a 9 pence rise at 185 pence. 

 Publisher Metal Bulletin pulled off the largest takeover in its history, paying up to UKpound 31 million for Canadian group BCA Publications. Broker ABNAmro raved over the deal, helping the shares jump 20 pence to 357 pence. 

 Broker ING Barings recently called casino and betting chain Stanley Leisure "cheap as chips." The shares gained another 3 pence at 171 pence. It puts a break-up value on the business of 235 pence. 

 Former trainee astronaut Fred Westlake's car sensor company First Technology fell 32 pence to 519 pence, on a slight downgrading by Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. That halted a recent recovery which has driven the shares up from 421 pence. 

 Broker Bell Lawrie White believes replacement heart valve designer AorTech International, 7 pence off at 805 pence, is worth 1145 pence. They were 54 pence in 1999. 

Document krtbn00020010711dx1d008bf
?
C; BUSINESS; CHECKLIST: A ROUNDUP OF TOP BUSINESS NEWS TODAY
REGIONAL

FROM WIRE DISPATCHES AND STAFF REPORTS   
1,172 words
13 January 2001
The Washington Times
WATI
2
C9
English
Copyright 2001, News World Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

REGIONAL

The European Union approved United Airlines' $4.3 billion bid to acquire US Airways, saying that its concerns that the deal would reduce competition between Europe and the United States had been addressed by United's commitment to sell some airport landing and takeoff rights in Germany.

InteliData Technologies Corp., a Reston developer and marketer of software products and consulting services for the financial-services industry, said it bought Home Account Holdings Inc. for $36.2 million in stock. Home Account provides Internet banking services and electronic bill-payment products to corporate customers.

Chesapeake Corp., which makes cardboard displays to promote products in stores, said it will sell four display and corrugated-container businesses to focus on specialty packaging. The company will sell its Chesapeake Display and Packaging, Consumer Promotions International and Chesapeake Packaging, as well as its stake in Color-Box LLC, a joint venture with Georgia-Pacific Corp. The four units accounted for 38 percent of 1999 revenue of $1.2 billion, the Richmond company said.

Marriott International Inc. rehired McCann-Erickson New York, a unit of Interpublic Group of Cos., to handle U.S. advertising for six hotel brands under a new marketing campaign.

EA Engineering, Science, and Technology Inc. of Baltimore reported net income for its first quarter ended Nov. 30 fell 56 percent to $100,000 (2 cents per diluted share) from $230,000 (4 cents), in the year-earlier period. The environmental consulting firm said new orders increased 20 percent to $15.5 million for the quarter.

Sandy Spring Bancorp Inc., parent company of Sandy Spring National Bank of Maryland, said net income for its fourth quarter ended Dec. 30 rose 31 percent to $5.42 million (57 cents) from $4.14 million (43 cents) for the like quarter in 1999. Net income for fiscal 2000 rose 7 percent to $18.77 million ($1.96) from $17.52 ($1.82) for 1999.

Virginia Commonwealth Financial Corp., a Culpeper bank and trust company, said net income for its fourth quarter ended Dec. 30 rose 17 percent to $1.24 million (53 cents) from $1.03 million (44 cents) a year ago. For fiscal 2000, net income grew 6 percent to $4.91 million ($2.09) from $4.62 million ($1.96) in fiscal 1999. Assets grew 5.3 percent to $459.2 million as of Dec. 30.

Fannie Mae estimated earnings for this year were raised by Salomon Smith Barney Inc. analyst Thomas O'Donnell after the company reported a 12 percent increase in fourth-quarter earnings. Mr. O'Donnell said the Washington-based mortgage buyer will earn $4.93 a share this year, up from his previous estimate of $4.90. In 2000, Fannie earned a record $4.29 a share.

NATIONAL

Microsoft Corp. won dismissal of damage claims in 38 class-action antitrust suits when a judge held the company couldn't be sued by consumers who didn't directly purchase the Windows operating system from the software giant.

Raw meat and poultry will carry nutrition labels similar to those already required on soup cans, cereal boxes and other processed-food packages, under proposed Clinton administration rules. The Agriculture Department will take public comments on the labeling rules until April 18 before they are made final.

Archer Daniels Midland Co. agreed to pay a $1.46 million fine for violating federal and Illinois clean-air rules at its Decatur, Ill., corn feed plant and to spend another $1.6 million to reduce air pollution at the facility.

Laser Vision Centers Inc. agreed to pay a $1 million fine to settle Food and Drug Administration charges they altered eye lasers so the devices could treat a wider range of patients.

R.L. Stine, Louis Sachar and seven other authors have won back rights from a British company that had claimed ".com" ownership of their names. The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ruled in favor of the authors against Old Barn Studios Ltd.

The U.S. Transportation Department will seek to cut accidents by regulating 125,000 vans that shuttle riders to hotels, car rental agencies and airports, as well as those that carry intercity passengers along the U.S.-Mexico border.

Mercedes Benz-USA is recalling more than 16,000 1997 E-Class sedans with side air bags because they inadvertently deployed in 39 cases.

Ford Motor Co. said it is putting a new emphasis on quality to combat problems that led to more than $1 billion in lost profits last year through delayed production introductions and recalls.

Shares of Safeco Corp. tumbled 18 percent after the insurer said it will report a fourth-quarter loss reflecting damage claims caused by winter storms and weak earnings in its auto-insurance business. Safeco plunged $5.20 to $24 - the biggest drop since 1982.

NCR Corp. issued a profit warning for the fourth quarter, citing lower-than-expected sales to retailers because of the slowing U.S. economy. NCR makes point-of-sales systems and bar-coding systems for stores.

Kelly Services Inc., the No. 2 U.S. temporary-employment company, said its fourth-quarter profit missed estimates because of an economic slowdown that could hurt its 2001 earnings.

AT&T Corp. said cable rivals Cox Communications Inc. and Comcast Corp. agreed to accept $2.9 billion of AT&T stock for their stakes in At Home Corp. as part of a March buyout plan.

Target Corp. said it will change the name of its Dayton's and Hudson's stores to Marshall Field's to benefit from the image of its largest department store chain.

Coca-Cola Co. entered the battle of the bottled coffees, buying the maker of Planet Java coffee with plans to expand it nationwide. The purchase of privately held P.J. Bean Co. pits Coke against Frappuccino, a venture of PepsiCo and Starbucks Corp.

Eastman Kodak Co. is teaming up with Maytag Corp. to roll out thousands of camera-and-film vending machines over the next three years to satisfy instant cravings for a must-have snapshot in such away-from-home places as parks or ski resorts.

INTERNATIONAL

Cable & Wireless PLC, Britain's second-biggest phone company, said it will spend $448 million on a trans-Atlantic cable network allowing fast data transmission between Europe and North America. The cable project, called Apollo, will require additional financing from Alcatel SA, Europe's second-biggest phone equipment maker, which will build and maintain the network.

DaimlerChrysler AG, the world's largest truck maker, said sales at its truck division rose 5 percent to a record $26.7 billion last year as sales of more expensive models made up for a decline in the number of vehicles sold.

Russia's payment in January to the Paris Club, a group of creditor nations, will be only about 10 percent of the originally scheduled $316.4 million, Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Kolotukhin said.

Document WATI000020140719dx1d00mi8
?
 

 Gateway profits log off. 

362 words
13 January 2001
Australian
AUSTLN
38
English
(c) 2001 Nationwide News Proprietary Ltd

 PC growth is stagnating GATEWAY, the second largest direct seller of personal computers, has reported fourth-quarter results worse than already reduced expectations and said sales growth for this year would also fall short of earlier forecasts. 

 The company said it would cut its workforce by 10 per cent, reduce overhead costs and compete more aggressively at the low end of the market for personal computers. 

 "We think we need to restructure our cost structure," said Gateway chief financial officer John Todd, adding the job cuts would come "across the board". 

 Gateway shares fell to $US20 in after hours trade, down from a close of $US22.90 on the New York Stock Exchange, where the shares had rallied in a bargain-hunting rally that lifted the whole computer hardware sector. 

 Excluding a previously announced $US187 million ($334 million) pre-tax charge for a writedown on Gateway's stock investments, the company earned $US37.6 million, or US12c a share, in the fourth quarter, compared with a net income of $US126 million, or US38c, in the same quarter a year earlier. 

 Wall Street analysts had expected operating income of US37c a share consensus on average, according to First Call. 

 Gateway's results are the latest sign of just how sharply the PC market has slowed since late 2000. Gateway had warned of lower revenue on November 29, but actual fourth-quarter sales came in 7 per cent below that already diminished forecast, at $US2.373 billion. 

 Hewlett-Packard has also issued a profit warning for its fiscal first quarter, citing a global economic slowdown and trimmed spending by customers on information technology. 

 Gateway expected to see a return in PC demand in the second half of the year but would compete more aggressively on price, by offering more lower priced PC models for between $US799 and $US1299, Mr Todd said. 

 A year-end sales campaign that allowed consumers to buy PCs direct from Gateway stores, rather than take delivery later, was "very successful" and the company had reduced inventories "close to" normal levels as measured in days, Mr Todd said. He declined to provide further detail on inventory. 

 Reuters. 

Document austln0020010710dx1d00hr0
?
 Gateway and HP suffer from bad economy 

386 words
12 January 2001
Newswire (VNU)
VNUN
English
 Copyright (C) 2001 VNU Business Publications Ltd.; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Hardware companies are continuing to bear the brunt of the slowing US economy as Gateway announced yesterday that it would axe 10 per cent of its workforce andHewlett Packard (HP) issued a profit warning. 

 PC maker Gateway plans to cut 10 per cent of its 20,000-strong global workforce across all divisions. The announcement was made as the company reported worse than expected fourth quarter results. 

 For the period ended 31 December, Gateway made a loss of $94.3m, or 29 cents a share, including a $187m one-off charge, compared to a profit of $126m, or38 cents a share, a year ago. Sales dropped to $2.37bn, compared to $2.55bn last year. 

 Excluding the one-time charge, the company would have posted a net income of $37.6m, or 12 cents a share, well below Wall Street's expectation of 37 cents a share. The actual figures were also worse than those Gateway had predicted in last November's profit warning when it said revenue would remain flat. 

 Gateway chief executive, Jeff Weitzen, said: "When we pre-announced in November, we had expected some continued ramping of demand in December based on past experience, but that did not materialise." He added that the current price wars between PC vendors would hurt the desktop sector for the next six months. 

 The company has also revised its forecasts for 2001 and expects revenue to grow at three per cent while earning per share will increase six per cent. 

 Meanwhile, HP warned that it would not meet projections for its first quarter results and that sales would continue to be slow in the second quarter. The company expects its first quarter earnings per share to be between 35 and 40 cents, well below the 44cents predicted by Wall Street analysts. 

 HP chairman and chief executive, Carly Fiorina, said: "It's clear that there's been a significant change in market conditions in recent weeks. Consumer spending in the US has been below even our own conservative estimates and our enterprise customers have become increasingly cautious about IT spending." 

 The announcements by Gateway and HP are expected to send shivers through the industry, which is bracing itself for the expected poor financial results of Intel, Apple and AMD next week. 

Document vnun000020010713dx1c0010l
?
 

 RESEARCH ALERT-Goldman cuts Lands's End estimates. 

102 words
12 January 2001
15:59
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 12 (Reuters) - Goldman Sachs on Friday said it had cut its fiscal 2002 earnings estimate for retailer Lands's End Inc. after the company issued a profit warning. 

 In a research note, analyst Barbara Miller said she had lowered her earnings per share estimate for 2002 to $1.39 from $1.48. 

 Miller said she rates the stock as a market underperformer. 

 Lands' End shares were up 65 cents at $27.75 on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock has a 52-week range of $18.70 to $61.50. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1c020kv
?
 

 UPDATE 3-Gateway Q4 net falls far short of forecasts. 

 By Andrea Orr 
718 words
12 January 2001
01:32
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 SAN FRANCISCO, Jan 11 (Reuters) - Gateway Inc. on Thursday joined the crowd of high-tech companies releasing dismal earnings data, when it reported a fourth-quarter profit that was less than one-third the expected level - a forecast which had already been scaled back dramatically just after Thanksgiving. 

 The world's second-biggest direct seller of personal computers also warned of lower first-quarter sales, and said it would cut about 10 percent of its staff, some 3,000 positions, to reduce spending. 

 "We're not proud of our results for the fourth quarter, and there's really no way to sugar-coat the next few months," Gateway Chief Executive Jeff Weitzen told analysts during a conference call after the surprise earnings report emerged a week ahead of schedule. 

 Gateway shares fell to $20 in after-hours trade, down from a close of $22.90 on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares had rallied earlier during a burst of bargain-hunting that lifted the whole computer hardware sector. Gateway's stock is well off its 52-week high of $75. 

 Excluding a previously announced $187 million pretax charge for a write-down on Gateway's stock investments, the company earned $37.6 million, or 12 cents a share in the fourth quarter, compared with net income $126 million, or 38 cents in the same quarter a year earlier. 

 Wall Street analysts had expected operating income of 37 cents a share, according to First Call, which tracks forecasts. Prior to the November warning analysts had been forecasting a fourth-quarter profit of 62 cents per share, showing how swiftly PC industry conditions deteriorated at the end of the year. 

 Joining Gateway with an earnings warning on Thursday was Hewlett-Packard Co., which scaled back first-quarter sales and earnings projections and noted that the slowdown in December had been so pronounced it felt like someone had turned the lights out. 

 Gateway's shortfall was far more pronounced, however. 

 Although Gateway had also warned of lower revenues previously, its actual fourth-quarter sales came in 7 percent below that already diminished forecast, at $2.37 billion, down 6.9 percent from the year-ago quarter. 

 While lower-than-expected sales hurt profits, Gateway also blamed severe price-cutting, which accelerated as the quarter progressed. 

 Chief Financial Officer John Todd said that in the final month before Christmas, the company cut prices close to 10 percent, resulting in a loss at its PC division for the first time in Gateway history. 

 The company said unsold inventory will continue to pressure PC sales across the industry during the first half of this year. 

 "I can't imagine why we would see a sudden return to higher pricing with a lot of inventory out there that is basically rotting on the shelves," CEO Weitzen said in response to a question about the pricing outlook. 

 The company forecast a slim 3 percent increase in revenues for 2001, and said it expects first-quarter revenue to decline 10 percent. It said it expects first quarter earnings of around 21 cents per share, less than half the forecast 45 cents. 

 Company officials said they expect to see a return in PC demand in the second half of the year, but until then they plan to offer more lower-priced PC models for between $799 and $1,299. 

 There were a few bright spots hidden in the bad numbers. Gateway said its "beyond-the-box" business, which consists of computer add-ons like software, Internet access, financing and warrantees, performed well. That business accounted for 24 percent of Gateway's total revenue during the quarter. 

 The company also said it also hopes to take advantage of the current price wars to boost its market share. "In the short run, the pricing will affect our earnings. In the long run it should significantly improve our changes of gaining a leading market position," said Todd. 

 But Gateway said it could not blame all its current troubles on broad economic trends. Weitzen cited a problem with "product relevance" in Asia, where he said it will have to revamp its product line to accommodate a market preference for thin compact products, rather than "large, cumbersome desktop boxes." 

Document lba0000020010713dx1c01yjg
?
 British Bus Maker Blames Falling Profits on Lower Sales in North America 

231 words
12 January 2001
Knight Ridder Tribune Business News - KRTBN
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2001 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Shares in busmaker Henlys crashed today after it warned that profits fell short in 2000 because of a last-minute slump in sales of touring coaches in North America as fears grow about the US economy. 

 The shares, which have enjoyed a strong run since touching a year low of 320 pence in October, have surged to more than 450 pence in recent months. Today, they reversed 73 pence, a 16 percent decline, to 385 pence. 

 Deputy chairman and chief executive Robert Wood said that the company's 49 percent -owned Canadian coachmaker, Prevost, had seen orders for touring coaches suddenly dry up in November and December, normally the busiest time of year. 

 The year's sales will fall about 80 vehicles short of the target of around 600, cutting several million pounds off group profits. 

 Analysts had been pencilling in profits of about UKpound 68 million but the actual figure will fall "marginally short", the company said. Wood said that a "credit crunch" in America was making it harder for touring companies to finance their orders. 

 The board decided to issue the profit warning because of the recent strength of the share price and some unusually heavy buying of the shares since the new year, Wood said. 

 The company reports its results for last year in mid-March. 

Document krtbn00020010711dx1c007eu
?
 

 Business Brief -- LookSmart Ltd.: Firm Issues  Profit Warning  Due to Slowing Ad Growth 

151 words
12 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal
J
A6
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LookSmart Ltd. said fourth-quarter revenue and earnings will fall below expectations, citing slowing growth in the advertising market, and that it would cut its staff by 172 employees, or 25% of its world-wide work force. The San Francisco Web-directory company said fourth-quarter revenue would be about $30 million to $31 million, down from previous projections of $33 million to $36 million. It expects to report a loss, excluding noncash items, of 14 cents a share to 15 cents a share, compared with analyst consensus estimates of a 12-cent loss. The company will take a first-quarter charge for the restructuring. LookSmart will release final results Jan. 25. The news was released after the markets closed. At 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, LookSmart shares were up six cents to $3.09. 

Document j000000020010711dx1c001jk
?
BUSINESS
TECH STOCKS SOAR, WHILE BLUE CHIPS DRAG

ASSOCIATED PRESS   
734 words
12 January 2001
Telegraph Herald
DUBQTELH
C7
English
Copyright 2001, Woodward Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK (AP) - Technology stocks soared Thursday, lifting blue chips more modestly and giving the Nasdaq composite index its first three-day winning streak since Labor Day.

However, a profit warning from Hewlett-Packard and lower-than-expected Gateway earnings released after the market's close erased some of those gains in extended trading.

Still, analysts were pleased with the regular session's advances, particularly in the battered tech sector.

"It's not a full-blown green light to recovery, but this is a good sign," said Brian Belski, fundamental market strategist for US Bancorp Piper Jaffray. "It would be naive to think there's not going to be some downward surprise from earnings as we get into the reporting season, but I think investors are starting to think with a longer-term, more disciplined approach to investing."

The Nasdaq rose 116.39 to 2,640.57, extending a rally that began Tuesday.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 5.28 at 10,609.55 after spending most of the day in negative territory. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 gained 13.55 to reach 1,326.82.

Although Wall Street maintains an anxious focus on earnings, many analysts believe market conditions are improving overall.

"Clearly in the last several days, the Nasdaq has done well. We're also seeing improving breadth, the number of stocks advancing vs. those declining," said Richard Cripps, chief market strategist for Legg Mason of Baltimore. "We could be looking at a fairly strong rally in the near-term, but what could hold the market back are earnings issues."

Tech stocks turned in a strong performance across the board in regular trading, but some of those issues fell after the Gateway and Hewlett-Packard announcements.

Shortly after regular trading ended, Hewlett-Packard lowered its earnings estimate and then tumbled $1.38 to $31, wiping out its 63 cent gain during the day. And Gateway fell $2.96 to $20 after missing Wall Street earnings estimates by 25 cents a share, completely erasing its regular session gain.

Microsoft fell $1 to $54 in late trading, after rising $2.13 to $55 in regular trading.

PC maker Dell fell $1 to $21.81 after a $1.50 gain in the regular session.

In regular trading, financial issues were strong, lifted by J.P. Morgan Chase, which rose $3.19 to $54.13.

Those gains helped offset much of the slump in the Dow's other sectors during the day. Consumer cyclicals and pharmaceutical issues - stocks popular with investors when economic growth is slowing - slipped. Johnson & Johnson fell $3.44 to $92.44 and Philip Morris fell 6 percent, down $2.50 to $41.63.

Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany, said the trend suggests the market is becoming more bullish, and worrying less about longer-term economic problems.

But he cautioned against assuming the market's troubles are over, noting that the fourth-quarter earnings reports are still ahead.

"This is pretty good news," he said. "But Rome wasn't built in a day and this is only three days."

Indeed, many of the losses recorded Thursday were earnings-specific. Yahoo! tumbled $4.63 to $25.88, a 15 percent decline, after forecasting soft results for 2001. West Coast utility PG&E fell 9 percent, down $1.25 to $12.31, on fears that escalating energy prices will send it into bankruptcy.

Belski, the US Bancorp Piper Jaffray analyst, noted that much of the gains in recent days have come late in the day, possibly a positive trend.

"It's a sign of momentum buying, people thought they were missing something so they rushed into the market late in the day," he said. "That's typical bullish behavior."

Advancing issues led decliners 5 to 4 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.35 billion shares, compared with 1.28 billion Wednesday at the same point.

The Russell 2000 index rose 8.41 to 483.86.

Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 1.7 percent. Germany's DAX index was up 2.3 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 was up 0.9 percent, and France's CAC-40 was down 0.9 percent.

On the Net:

New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

Document DUBQTELH20140821dx1c007dl
?
 

 BRIDGE UPDATE-COMPANY NEWS - Pasminco to be sued for third time. 

903 words
12 January 2001
05:58
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 12, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 FCC OKs AOL-Time Warner merger under conditions 

 New York-Jan. 11-The Federal Communications Commission has approved the combination of America Online Inc. (US;AOL) and Time Warner Inc.(US;TWX) under certain conditions, Chairman William Kennard said at a press conference in Washington. The approval was the last step in a long regulatory review and allows the mega-merger-announced a year and one day ago-to become reality. The FCC's conditions concern high-speed Internet access services via Time Warner cable lines, "advanced" instant messaging services, and the issue of cross-ownership between Time Warner and telecommunications giant AT&T Corp [US;T]. ( Stooy .24323 ) 

 Australia's Pasminco to face third lawsuit for negligence 

 Sydney-Jan. 12-Australia's leading lead and zinc producer Pasminco Ltd. [AU;PAS] will be sued for a third time by residents of two Australian states, who claim the company's operations have harmed their health. Coleman & Greig, the law firm representing 1,200 residents in Cockle Creek, New South Wales, and Port Pirie, South Australia, said it would file separate claims against Pasminco for each of the communities on Feb. 2. ( Story .25875 ) 

 Gateway posts Q4 loss, expects to cut workforce 10% 

 Washington-Jan. 11-San-Diego based PC-maker Gateway Inc. (US;GTW) unexpectedly released fourth-quarter results that were far below the guidance issued by the company in late November. It posted a loss of $94.3 million, or 29 cents a share, for the quarter, against Wall Street expectations of a profit of 37 cents per share. In addition, the company expects to cut its workforce by 10% during the first quarter. ( Story .23753 ) 

 Hewlett-Packard warns on Q1 amid economic slowdown 

 New York-Jan. 11-After repeatedly reassuring investors it would meet first-quarter expectations, computer maker Hewlett-Packard Co. (US;HWP) joined the growing ranks of technology companies to issue a profit warning because of slower information technology spending. Citing worsening conditions and deceleration in corporate and consumer spending in recent weeks, H-P now expects to earn 35-40 cents per share, compared with a previous estimate of 44 cents and analysts' expectations of 42 cents. ( Story .5975 ) 

 Nortel to cut 4,000 jobs, focus on "igh-growth areas 

 Toronto/New York-Jan. 11-Canadian high-tech giant Nortel Networks Corp. (US;NT) said it will lay off about 4,000 workers, about 4% of its workforce, as it eliminates jobs in low-growth markets. But Nortel, the second-biggest maker of telecom products in North America behind Lucent Technologies Inc. (US;LU), said it plans to continue to recruit staff for its high-growth divisions, such as optical and wireless Internet, local Internet and e-commerce, offsetting the planned reduction and keeping workforce numbers flat. ( Story .5972 ) 

 Fannie Mae Q4 earnings up 12% on mortgage portfolio growth 

 New York-Jan. 11-Fannie Mae (US;FNM), the giant government-sponsored company that buys mortgages from the nation's lenders, said fourth-quarter earnings rose 12% as falling interest rates fueled accelerated growth in its mortgage portfolio. Washington-based Fannie Mae reported $1.16 billion in fourth-quarter net income, or $1.12 a share, up from $1.04 billion, or 99 

 cents, in the fourth quarter of 1999. The performance matched the average analyst estimate compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial. ( Story .5971 ) 

 Internet search company AltaVista withdraws IPO 

 New York-Jan. 11-AltaVista Co. became the latest Internet company to withdraw plans for an initial public offering, as the U.S. economy continues to slow and the IPO market reaches a standstill. The Palo Alto, Calif.-based company, which is 83%-owned by Internet investment firm CMGI Inc. (US;CMGI), had hoped to raise nearly $300 million when it filed to go public with the Securities and Exchange Commission in Dece1/2ber 1999. ( Story .19605 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 Australia's Telstra tight-lipped on Singapore MobileOne reports 

 Melbourne-Jan. 12-Australian telecommunications heavyweight Telstra Corp. (AU;TLS) has refused to comment on reports that it is conducting due diligence to purchase an Aus $500 million stake in Singapore's number two mobile phone operator MobileOne Asia. ( Story .24979 ) 

 Yahoo! CEO says company strong enough to survive tough times 

 Washington-Jan. 11-Yahoo! (US;YHOO) Chief Executive Tim Koogle defended the company's position as an Internet leader while reiterating that expectations for reduced revenue and profits for 2001 is just a temporary situation. In an interview on the CNBC cable network, Koogle said he believed the strongest will survive from the ongoing tech retrenchment, even as analysts continued to reduce their outlooks on Yahoo!, which has suffered from a downturn in online advertising. ( Story .19138 ) 

 DoubleClick reports break-even quarter, loss for year 

 Washington-Jan. 11-DoubleClick Inc. (US;DCLK) reported that it broke even for the fourth quarter as the deteriorating online advertising market cut into its profitability. The New York-based online advertising company reported revenue of $132.3 million in the quarter, up from the $93.7 million posted in the same quarter in 1999. The flat profits per share number came up short of last year's 2 cents' earnings but beat Street estimates by 2 cents. ( Story .23656 ) 

 Ariba tops Street forecast in first profitable quarter 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1c005hf
?
Business
Investors welcome Nortel's plan to  cut  jobs  

CP
560 words
12 January 2001
The Cambridge Reporter
TCMR
A6
English
Copyright (c) 2001 The Cambridge Reporter.  

Toronto -- Investors welcomed Nortel's confirmation yesterday its plans to trim its worldwide, full-time workforce by 4,000 over the next few months - including about 830 in Ottawa and 170 in the Toronto area - in a streamlining of operations.  

In New York, Nortel gained $2.13 US to close at $34.06 as 34 million shares traded.  

Technology shares were also the winner south of the border, lifting blue chips more modestly and giving the Nasdaq composite index its first three-day winning streak since Labour Day.  

However, a profit warning from Hewlett-Packard and lower-than-expected Gateway earnings released after the market's close erased some of those gains in extended trading.  

The Nasdaq rose 116.39 to 2,640.57, extending a rally that began Tuesday.  

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 5.28 at 10,609.55 after spending most of the day in negative territory. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 gained 13.55 to reach 1,326.82.  

It's not a full-blown green light to recovery, but this is a good sign, said Brian Belski, fundamental market strategist for US Bancorp Piper Jaffray.  

It would be naive to think there's not going to be some downward surprise from earnings as we get into the reporting season, but I think investors are starting to think with a longer-term, more disciplined approach to investing.  

In Toronto, other technology shares gained. Celestica was up $9.45 to $89.55, Ballard Power rose $12.30 to $101.60 and Research In Motion added $8.10 to $85.90.  

Ten of 14 stock groups rose, with consumer products up 2.29 per cent and transportation up 1.43 per cent. The biggest decliner was the metals and minerals group, off 2.72 per cent.  

Advancers outnumbered decliners 599 to 420 with 245 unchanged in trading of 171 million shares valued at $3.7 billion. The TSE 100 rose 13.15 to 544.26.  

The Canadian dollar closed at 66.91 US yesterday, up 0.34 of a cent from Wednesday's close. News that Lucien Bouchard is resigning as premier of Quebec gave the Canadian dollar a moderate nudge upward on currency markets.  

In New York, although Wall Street maintains an anxious focus on earnings, many analysts believe market conditions are improving overall.  

Clearly in the last several days, the Nasdaq has done well. We're also seeing improving breadth, the number of stocks advancing versus those declining, said Richard Cripps, chief market strategist for Legg Mason of Baltimore. We could be looking at a fairly strong rally in the near-term, but what could hold the market back are earnings issues.  

Tech stocks turned in a strong performance across the board in regular trading, but some of those issues fell in after-market trading after Gateway's earnings missed analyst expectations and Hewlett-Packard lowered its earnings estimates.  

Hewlett-Packard tumbled $1.38 to $31 US, wiping out its 63-cent gain during the day, and Gateway fell $2.96 to $20, completely erasing its regular session gain.  

Microsoft fell $1 to $54 in late trading, after rising $2.13 to $55 in regular trading. PC maker Dell fell $1 to $21.81 after a $1.50 gain in the regular session.  

Document TCMR000020051223dx1c000ew
?
 

 Prices slide on rate  cut  doubts. 

 By Sandra O'Malley. 
534 words
12 January 2001
Courier Mail
COUMAI
29
English
(c) 2001 Queensland Newspapers Pty Ltd

 CONTINUING uncertainty about interest rates kept the Australian sharemarket in negative territory yesterday, sending it lower for its fourth consecutive session. News Corp shares moved back into the black by the end of the day, helping the market trim its losses, but falls in resource stocks and key industrials Brambles and Lend Lease kept the broader market in the red. The benchmark ASX 200 lost 13.6 points to 3225.6, while the All Ordinaries index gave up 12.1 points to 3172.4. The All Industrials index fell 15.3 points to 5495.1 and the All Resources 14.1 points to 1367.4. On the Sydney Futures Exchange, the March share price contract eased seven points to 3254 on volume of 112 contracts, representing a 29.6 point premium to the underlying share price index. In New York overnight, investors pushed technology stocks higher for a second straight session overnight despite worries about tech bellwether Cisco Systems. 

  Blue chips rallied to end a four-session losing streak, with the Dow Jones industrial average finishing 31.72 points higher at 10,604.27 after spending most of the day in negative territory. The tech-laden Nasdaq composite index rose 82.88 points to 2,524.18. The Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 12.47 to 1313.27. Hartley Poynton institutional adviser Paul Lucas said the Australian market was lacking inspiration and plagued by uncertainty, causing investors to sit back and wait for a clearer picture on the interest rate question. 

 "It looks a bit bleak," he said. "We're continuing to wait for the Reserve Bank to make a decision later this month and a decision from the Federal Reserve in the US, what they are going to do about interest rates. 

 "We're waiting to see what those decisions will be ... once they know what monetary policy is (investors) can make a decision about the investment market." 

 The Resource index suffered a 1 percent loss, led lower by Rio Tinto, which shed 55.7 to $28.89. MIM shed nearly 10 percent of its value, plummeting 10 to 94 after it issued a profit warning and amid continuing concerns over earnings. 

 It topped national turnover with 53.9 million shares worth $52.8 million changing hands. 

 BHP eased 15 to $19.08 despite its Federal Court victory against unions on Wednesday. Takeover target Woodside Petroleum shed 5 to $14.50 as the market waits for the Foreign Investment Review Board to rule on Shell's bid for control of the oil and gas group. 

 WMC lost 12.8 to $7.16. 

 In the media sector, News Corp picked up in afternoon trading to finish 15 higher at $15.90, while its preferred stock eased 2.9 to $14.039. PBL shed 5 to $13.40 and Fairfax 2 to $3.98. 

 Banks were generally weaker. CBA dropped 20 to $30.40, NAB 15.8 to $28.90 and Westpac 1 to $13.20. ANZ was steady at $14.20. 

 Telcos were mixed, with Telstra firming 3 to $6.68 and C&W Optus shedding 11.5 to $3.53. 

Document coumai0020010710dx1c006ny
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Playtex to miss earnigns estimates. 

345 words
11 January 2001
15:50
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 WESTPORT, Conn., Jan 11 (Reuters) - Playtex Products Inc. on Thursday said it expected fourth-quarter earnings to come in sharply below analysts' estimates - a warning that sent its stock to a four-year low - as the slowing economy and stiff competition in the infant care business cut into sales. 

 Playtex shares fell 12.8 percent, or 1-1/4, to $8-1/2 on Thursday morning on the New York Stock Exchange. Playtex shares underperformed the S & P 500 by about 28 percent since the beginning of 2000. 

 The Westport, Conn.-based maker of Playtex Tampons, the Diaper Genie and other items said earnings for the fourth quarter are expected to be between 2 and 4 cents per share, down from 18 cents a year ago. Net sales for the quarter are expected to be about 5 percent below year-ago levels. 

 Analysts on average had estimated earnings per share of 15 cents per share, according to research firm First Call. The company said that the slowing economy was causing retailers to delay ordering new products until they had exhausted products on its shelves. 

 "It appears that trade inventory levels were reduced unexpectedly at year-end for a number of our categories," Chief Executive Officer Michael Gallagher said in a news release. 

 The company is also continues to face competitive pressure from new products launched by competitors like Novartis AG's Gerber unit, which cut into sales and caused Playtex to increase promotional spending in 2000. Playtex cited the competitive infant care market in October as one factor when it issued a profit warning for the third and fourth quarters. 

 The company also said that assuming the economic and competitive factors continue through the first half of 2001, the year 2001 is expected to show mid-single digit growth in net sales over the revised 2000 estimate. 

 Playtex said it expects to report earnings per share for the full year 2000 in the range of 57 to 59 cents. The First Call consensus estimate was 70 cents. 

Document lba0000020010716dx1b00rrd
?
 

 US Treasuries buoyed as stocks seen opening lower. 

 By Daniel Sternoff 
355 words
11 January 2001
13:06
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 11 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries rose in early Thursday trading as U.S. stocks looked set for early losses after a profit warning from Internet media company Yahoo! Inc. compounded jitters over poor corporate earnings. 

 "The Yahoo earnings warning gave the market a little bit of a bid and stock markets have been down overseas," said a trader at a U.S. primary dealer. 

 In early trade, Nasdaq stock futures tumbled 50 points, indicating the technology-laden index was set to unravel from a 3.4 percent rally a day earlier. Standard & Poor's 500 stock futures slipped 5.50 points. 

 Pushing higher, Treasuries recouped some ground lost this week as a slew of new higher-yielding corporate and federal agency debt enticed investors out of the government debt market. 

 Dealers said more of the some $34 billion in new corporate debt coming to market this week would hamper the market's advance. 

 Players were also zeroing in on weekly jobless claims figures due out at 8:30 a.m. (1330 GMT) for signs of how heavily a slowing economy has impacted the still-tight U.S. labor market. 

 "We have jobless claims and we'll be looking at stocks and the corporate calendar today," the trader said. 

 But traders were more focused on Friday's December retail sales data for indications of how much consumer spending, the largest engine of U.S. economic growth, is slowing. 

 Strategists are scrutinizing the latest economic data for clues on Federal reserve interest rate policy following a sharp surprise half point rate cut last week aimed at preventing a slowdown from souring into a deeper slump. 

 In early trade, two-year Treasury notes gained 3/32 to 100-24/32, yielding 4.72 percent. Five-year notes rose 6/32 to 104-2/32, pushing their yield down to 4.79 percent. 

 Benchmark 10-year notes gained 8/32 to 105-4/32, yielding 5.07 percent, while 30-year bonds were up 6/32 to 111-3/32, yielding 5.48 percent. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1b020t4
?
 

 UPDATE 2-Gateway Q4 net falls far short of forecasts. 

586 words
11 January 2001
23:15
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 SAN FRANCISCO, Jan 11 (Reuters) - Gateway Inc., the second-largest direct seller of personal computers, on Thursday reported fourth-quarter results that badly missed already reduced expectations and said sales growth for this year would fall short of earlier forecasts. 

 The company said it would cut its workforce by 10 percent, reduce overhead costs and compete more aggressively at the low end of the market for personal computers. 

 "We think we need to restructure our cost structure," said Gateway chief financial officer John Todd, adding the job cuts would come "across the board." 

 Gateway shares fell to $20 in after hours trade, down from a close of $22.90 on the New York Stock Exchange, where the shares had rallied in a bargain-hunting-based rally that lifted the whole computer hardware sector. 

 Excluding a previously announced $187 pretax charge for a write-down on Gateway's stock investments, the company earned $37.6 million, or 12 cents a share in the fourth quarter, compared with net income $126 million, or 38 cents in the same quarter a year earlier. 

 Wall Street analysts had expected operating income of 37 cents a share consensus on average, according to First Call. 

 Gateway's results were the latest sign of just how sharply the PC market has slowed since late 2000. Gateway had warned of lower revenue on Nov. 29, but actual fourth-quarter sales came in 7 percent below that already diminished forecast at $2.373 billion. 

 "When we pre-announced on November 29, we had expected some continued ramping of demand in December based on past experience, but that did not materialize," Gateway Chief Executive Jeff Weitzen said in a statement. 

 "Softer sales have caused inventories of our competitors to swell, and have touched off an aggressive pricing environment that will have negative consequences for the PC sector for the next six months." 

 Along with Gateway's dismal earnings report, Hewlett-Packard Co. issued on Thursday a profit warning for its fiscal first quarter, citing a global economic slowdown and trimmed spending by customers on information technology. 

 Gateway expects to see a return in PC demand in the second-half of the year, but will compete more aggressively on price, by offering a greater number of lower-priced PC models for between $799 and $1,299, Todd said. 

 A year-end sales campaign that allowed consumers to buy PCs direct from Gateway stores, rather than take delivery later, was "very successful" and the company has reduced inventories "close to" normal levels as measured in days, said Todd. He declined to provide further detail on inventory. 

 The write-down on stock investments took Gateway's portfolio to about $300 million at the end of the quarter, Todd said. The company has not written down the value of investments in privately held companies, he said. 

 Todd rejected criticism of the way Gateway has handled its portfolio, which he said had not performed "any worse than the public market," but he said the company has already become more prudent in its investments in the light of recent losses. 

 "As the market turned we started being a lot more selective," he said of Gateway's tech investments. 

 A full earnings announcement had not been expected for another week from Gateway, but Todd said that the company saw no reason to wait. "We felt that based on the fact that we had the information, we shouldn't wait any longer," he said. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1b01yjf
?
 

 U.S. debt futures waver back and forth, watch stocks. 

643 words
11 January 2001
16:09
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Jan 11 (Reuters) - U.S. debt futures were slightly higher in early action Thursday, struggling to hold on to small gains posted while temporary weakness in U.S. stock index futures gave the credit market a light boost. 

 "It is extremely uneventful," one debt futures broker at the Chicago Board of Trade said. "The curve was steepening overnight and now it's flattening back out again as the bonds lead the charge," he said as March bonds were about two ticks higher on the day. 

 A profit warning from Yahoo! Inc. rattled stock index futures early, lending a small bid to debt futures. But bonds and stocks traded places back and forth between positive and negative territory as the market received analysts' outlooks on Yahoo in the wake of the warning. 

 Despite the earnings warning, Merrill Lynch said it sees Yahoo's valuation as attractive, and Bear Stearns maintained its buy rating on the company's stock. But UBS Warburg, Salomon and DB Alex Brown downgraded the stock. 

 Other CBOT traders said technicals were driving price action in Treasury futures more than volatility in stocks. 

 "More than anything, we just hit some technical levels," another credit futures trader said. "What I defined as the failure point in 10-years yesterday was 105-20/32, and that's the high today. I think the market's going to be relatively rangebound right now. All three contracts are near the highs right now. 

 Intraday resistance in March bonds is 104-20/32, the trader said, nothing that the contract rose briefly above that level before trimming gains. Support lies from 104-4/32 to 104-00. 

 In March 10-years, the contract was trading just above a wide band of support from 105-6/32 to 104-20/32, the trader said. 

 March five-year notes have a similar band of support just beneath current prices from 103-28/32 down to 102-6/32. 

 "If the market takes out any of those small bases, you should see about another quarter-point either way," the trader said. "I think (the market) is tired. We're getting close to some watershed technical support levels. If they take these levels out on a closing basis, I'm looking for some pretty good flushes - at least a couple points in the bonds. The market can use it." 

 Debt futures could catch a bid late in the day ahead of key economic data Friday, traders said. 

 Retail sales figures due out Friday are expected to show a decline of 0.4 percent for December, according to economists surveyed by Reuters. Excluding car sales, retail sales are forecast to show a 0.1 percent rise. 

 Economists polled by Reuters expect Friday's producer price index to show an increase of 0.1 percent in December both overall and in the core rate, while excludes prices from the volatile food and energy sectors. 

 Debt contracts showed little reaction to the weekly jobless claims released Thursday, which dipped to 345,000 in the week ending Jan. 6. 

 A separate report showed December import prices dipped 0.5 percent, while export prices fell 0.1 percent. 

 Market participants will also be keeping an eye on the corporate debt calendar Thursday and Friday, as a handful of deals are still expected to launch or price before the week ends, which could lend additional pressure. 

 At 9:50 a.m. CST (1550 GMT), March bonds were 3/32 higher at 104-19/32, 10-year notes were steady at 105-10.5/32, five-year notes were unchanged at 103-31.5/32, two-year notes rose 0.75/32 to 102-5/32, muni bonds gained 1/32 to 104-29/32, and June Eurodollars were 2 basis points stronger at 94.905. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1b01ya8
?
 

 UPDATE 2-Playtex to miss earnings estimates. 

 By Brad Dorfman 
417 words
11 January 2001
20:04
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 (Recasts, adds details, updated stock price, paragraphs 1-4, 7, byline. Previous WESTPORT) 

 CHICAGO, Jan 11 (Reuters) - Playtex Products Inc., caught off guard as retailer orders fell in the last two weeks of December, said on Thursday that it expected fourth-quarter earnings to come in sharply below analysts' estimates - a warning that sent its stock to a four-year low. 

 The Westport, Conn.-based maker of Playtex Tampons, the Diaper Genie and other personal items said that a slowing economy caused retailers to more aggressively manage their inventories by cutting orders late in the year. Also weighing on sales was continued stiff competition in the infant care business. 

 "We got surprised at the end of the month of December," Chief Executive Officer Michael Gallagher said in a conference call with analysts. "We do not believe that the impact is permanent." 

 Playtex shares fell nearly 18 percent, or 1-3/4, to $8 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Playtex shares have underperformed the S&P 500 index by about 28 percent since the beginning of 2000. 

 Playtex said earnings for the fourth quarter are expected to be between 2 and 4 cents per share, down from 18 cents a year ago. Net sales for the quarter are expected to be about 5 percent below year-ago levels. 

 Analysts on average had estimated earnings of 15 cents per share, according to research firm First Call. The company said that the slowing economy was causing retailers to delay ordering new products until they had exhausted products on their shelves. 

 Playtex had expected increased sales of tampons ahead of a Jan. 1 price increase, but that did not happen, Gallagher said. 

 The company also continues to face competitive pressure from new products launched by competitors like Novartis AG's Gerber unit, which cut into sales and caused Playtex to increase promotional spending in 2000. Playtex cited the competitive infant care market in October as one factor when it issued a profit warning for the third and fourth quarters. 

 The company also said that assuming the economic and competitive factors continue through the first half of 2001, the year 2001 is expected to show mid-single digit growth in net sales over the revised 2000 estimate. 

 Playtex said it expects to report earnings per share for the full year 2000 in the range of 57 to 59 cents. The First Call consensus estimate was 70 cents. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1b01y8v
?
 

 March bond futures down sharply for third straight day. 

592 words
11 January 2001
21:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Jan 11 (Reuters) - March Treasury bond futures settled nearly a point weaker for a third straight day as the rally in U.S. stock index futures gained momentum. 

 Technicians said the pullback in the lead bond contract signaled lower prices were in store for debt futures across the curve, but fundamental analysts said the only sure thing about price action Friday was that it was bound to be volatile. 

 "Another day of steep losses," one bond futures trader said. "This close suggests we will see even more weakness over the course of the day tomorrow." 

 Friday sees the release of the December producer price index and retail sales report, two key economic reports which the market is expected to devour after a week bereft of fresh fundamental indicators. 

 Retail sales figures due out Friday are expected to show a decline of 0.4 percent for December, according to economists surveyed by Reuters. Excluding car sales, retail sales are forecast to show a 0.1 percent rise. 

 Economists polled by Reuters expect Friday's producer price index to show an increase of 0.1 percent in December both overall and in the core rate, which excludes prices from the volatile food and energy sectors. 

 "I think there's some nervousness about the data, but not as much nervousness as there is about the stock market," the bond trader said. 

 Traders said the continued recovery in U.S. stocks could cause dealers to revise their outlooks for the number of Fed interest rate cuts in the coming months. 

 "I would tend to think that (the Fed) would do what's necessary to keep the economy from slipping," said Mitchell Held, managing director at Salomon Smith Barney in New York. "We think they're going to ease more - probably cuts at both of the next two meetings." 

 Held said it was not surprising that Treasuries have taken a hit over the last three days, given the mammoth amount of corporate debt issued this week. 

 The break through a band of support between 104-4/32 and 104-00 was especially bearish from a technical standpoint, analysts said. The close beneath 104-00 was also a technical negative. 

 "It will set us up to test support at the 50-day moving average of 102-17/32. We have a one-month low at 102-25/32," the trader said. "Those are the levels that we will be looking at short-term with a settlement below 104-00." 

 Credit futures managed to post small gains early in the session, while temporary weakness in U.S. stock index futures gave the debt market a light boost. A profit warning from Yahoo! Inc. caused a selloff in March Nasdaq 100 index and Standard & Poor's 500 index futures early, but both contracts quickly recovered lost ground to trade firmer. 

 Debt contracts showed little reaction to weekly jobless claims released Thursday, which dipped to 345,000 in the week ending Jan. 6. 

 A separate report showed December import prices dipped 0.5 percent, while export prices fell 0.1 percent. 

 March bond futures ended 25/32 lower at 103-23/32, 10-year notes gave up 7/32 to settle at 105-3.5/32, five-year notes lost 2/32 to 103-29.5/32, two-year notes were steady at 102-4.75/32, muni bonds closed 14/32 weaker at 104-14/32, and June Eurodollars rose 2.5 basis points to settle at 94.910. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1b01xzh
?
 

 U.S. Treasuries up as Nasdaq droops at open. 

 By Daniel Sternoff 
495 words
11 January 2001
14:50
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 11 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries floated higher in Thursday morning trading, rising as a profit warning from Internet media company Yahoo! Inc. rattled U.S. stock investors. 

 But Treasuries were unable to make much headway in the face of a barrage of higher-yielding corporate debt which has weighed on the market all week. 

 "We have a little bit of a run-up with help from weakness in stocks, but it has kind of hit the wall and is backing off," said Michael Cloherty, a fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 Some $34 billion in new corporate and federal agency debt is being sold this week, enticing investors with higher returns than Treasuries. 

 Wall Street technology stocks dipped at the opening bell, with the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index dropping nearly 1 percent, while the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average eked out slim gains of 0.1 percent. 

 German automaker DaimlerChrysler on Thursday began pricing a hefty sale of close to $7 billion in bonds, the largest such sale of the year. 

 In morning trade, two-year Treasury notes gained 3/32 to 100-23/32, yielding 4.73 percent. Five-year notes rose 3/32 to 103 even, yielding 4.81 percent. 

 Benchmark 10-year notes gained 5/32 to 105-1/32, yielding 5.08 percent, while 30-year bonds were up 12/32 to 111-9/32, yielding 5.47 percent. 

 Treasuries were little swayed by a Labor Department report showing weekly claims for U.S. jobless benefits fell by 36,000 in the week ended Jan. 6 to 345,000, better than economists had expected. 

 But the closely-watched four-week moving average rose to 363,000, its highest level since July 1998. 

 "This is still underlining we have seen weakening in the claims data and are seeing slackening in the labor market," Cloherty said. 

 But traders said they were more focused on Friday's December retail sales data for indications of how much consumer spending, the largest engine of U.S. economic growth, is slowing. 

 Strategists are scrutinizing the latest economic data for clues on Federal Reserve interest rate policy following a sharp surprise half point rate cut last week aimed at preventing a slowdown from souring into a deeper slump. 

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President Anthony Santomero on Thursday said he expects a slower rate of growth in the first half of 2001 and said last week's interest rate cut was the right decision. 

 "I think it is clear that we are in a growth slowdown," Santomero said, adding "Growth is moderating over the last couple of quarters. I think we can expect a somewhat slower first half of 2001." 

 He also said that tightness in labor markets - which had the Fed concerned about possible inflation for much of last year - seemed to be abating as the economy slows. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1b01xj7
?
 

 BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - Internet stocks in focus in Europe. 

538 words
11 January 2001
10:11
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 11, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 Internet stocks in focus in Europe 

 London-Jan. 11-The Internet sector was in focus Thursday morning on Europe's stock markets following the profit warning from U.S. Internet company Yahoo! (YHOO), which came after the U.S. market close. Telecoms were also in the spotlight after the release of poor, though as-expected, fourth-quarter earnings from U.S. handset giant Motorola (MOT). European telecoms companies seemed to show the effects of relief that Motorola offered no adverse market comments. At 0930 GMT, the FTSE Eurotop 100 Index was up 16.82 points, or 0.49%, at 3420.46. ( Story .1154 ) 

 Nikkei ends day at lowest close since October 1998 

 Tokyo-Jan. 11-Japan's Nikkeistocks index ended the day at 13,201.07, its lowest close since October 1998. Influenced by strong concerns over the near-term outlook of local equities, and pessimism stemming from the sharp fall in Yahoo! shares in after-hours trading, the Nikkei fell 231.58 points, or 1.7%. ( Story .1105 ) 

 Euro overtakes Asian highs 

 London-Jan. 11-The euro extended Wednesday's European losses in late U.S. trading before bouncing back in Thursday's Asian session, led by yen weakness on remarks from former finance ministry official Sakakibara, who said he expects the dollar to rise to 120 against the yen. In European trading, the euro has now overtaken its late Asian high of 0.9430 against the dollar, last trading at around 0.9450, a move which is also boosting its rate with the yen. ( Story .700) 

 Bunds open unchanged 

 London-Jan. 11-German government bonds, or Bunds, opened unchanged this morning. Bund prices may retrace all of the gains since the Fed cut rates last week as the positive momentum that has taken Bund futures higher has more or less disappeared. U.K. government bonds, or Gilts, are due to start the day little changed from Wednesday's close. ( Story .337 ) 

 US Treasuries slightly higher on short-covering 

 Tokyo-Jan. 11-U.S. Treasury prices were slightly higher in Asia than late New York on Wednesday due to short-covering by dealers led by weak Nasdaq futures. The 5-year note was most actively traded followed by 2-year notes. ( Story .302 ) 

 Japanese government bonds up on Nikkei weakness 

 Tokyo-Jan. 11-Japanese government bonds recouped Wednesday's losses and closed "igher as equities again suffered. Short-covering as well as cash bond purchases by city banks and investors such as life insurers also boosted the March contract. ( Story .100 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 US stocks higher in late trade 

 New York-Jan. 10-The Nasdaq extended its gains in the final hour of trade and the Dow industrials edged into positive territory as financial and technology stocks rallied further. Cisco Systems (CSCO) trimmed its losses, falling 3% to 36 after its CEO said it is facing a challenging quarter. Still, networking stocks rose 2% on average, wireless telecoms rose 8%, biotechs were up 7% and Internet and chip stocks rose 3% as investors looked for opportunities in the beaten-down tech sector. ( Story .1300 ) 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1b005fo
?
 

 Spending Slowdown Hurts IT Firms In 4Q >EDS CSC 

 By Laura Elizabeth Pohl 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
1,110 words
11 January 2001
20:30
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- There should be few surprises in computer services companies' fourth-quarter financial reports. 

 Most companies have issued profit warnings as customers slashed information technology budgets amid the economic slowdown. 

 Following a third quarter marred by the dot.com fallout and a second quarter hit by slow post-Y2K spending, computer services companies' fourth quarter was scarred by job cuts in addition to the profit warnings. 

 Only a few companies, including stalwarts Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) and Electronic Data Systems Corp. (EDS), which aren't heavily reliant on Internet-related clients, are expected to report earnings in line with analysts' estimates, even though they will also feel the pinch of reduced corporate IT spending in the coming quarters. 

 EDS, which has been a turnaround story for the past few years, saw its star rise in the fourth quarter as it beat competitors CSC and International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) to a U.S. Navy contract worth $6.9 billion over eight years. That, combined with contracts from Dow Chemical Co. (DOW), BellSouth Corp. (BLS) and other clients, will help boost EDS' year bookings past the company's expectation of $25 billion. At a recent Merrill Lynch investor conference, the company sounded upbeat about its near-term revenue picture. 

 "The fourth quarter was very healthy" for EDS, said Merrill Lynch analyst Stephen McClellan. "With the turnaround and bookings coming on strong, investors are looking for revenues to accelerate." 

 McClellan said the Plano, Tex., company's expected fourth-quarter revenue increase of 4% could be the beginning of an upturn in EDS' revenue growth rate. 

 "I think they need to put forth an image that they're back and strong, and it's business as usual to be viable against IBM and Andersen (Consulting) and CSC, who have been going along steadily without glitches," McClellan said. 

 He expects EDS to report a fourth-quarter net of 69 cents a share on revenue of $5.1 billion, compared with analysts' consensus of 68 cents a share. EDS made 61 cents a share in the 1999 fourth quarter. 

 Analysts describe CSC's revenue and earnings growth as "healthy." Though it lost the Navy pact to EDS, CSC is on track to tally $12 billion to $15 billion in contracts for its fiscal year ending March 30. 

 McClellan, however, is worried that the company's systems integration and consulting businesses are slowing. Nevertheless, he expects CSC to report fiscal third-quarter earnings of 76 cents a share, a penny above analysts' consensus. The El Segundo, Calif., company made 66 cents a share in the year-earlier period. 

 One potential albatross around CSC's neck is Mynd Corp. CSC announced it would buy the company in June, but the deal didn't close until Dec. 27. In the six months between, Mynd's business struggled and the transaction, once viewed by the Street as neutral, is now viewed as risky. Still, CSC executives have said they expect the deal to add to earnings. 

 At the other end of the spectrum, many Internet-focused companies issued profit warnings. They included the following: IXL Enterprises Inc. (IIXL), Agency.com Ltd. (ACOM), MarchFirst Inc. (MRCH), Razorfish Inc. (RAZF), Viant Corp. (VIAN), Scient Corp. (SCNT), Sapient Corp. (SAPE), Cambridge Technology Partners Inc. (CATP) and Cysive Inc. (CYSV). Companies that clamored for employees only six months ago found themselves reducing their workforces in the fourth quarter. 

 Among the more dire cases was Razorfish, once a darling, now a dog. After reducing its workforce by 10% in October, the New York company said it wouldn't cut any more employees despite mounting losses. With $50 million in cash and a burn rate of about $10 million a month, the company may only survive through May. 

 "I personally think Razorfish is potentially on a path to run itself out of business," said Stephen Birer, an analyst with Robertson Stephens. 

 "The company is making a bet that this is all going to turn around. If it does, that'll be great. It'll be like when you find gold and you're the only guy with a pick ax. If not,&#160;I'm concerned that the company could go out of business or something not pleasant." 

 Birer expects Razorfish to report a fourth-quarter loss of 20 cents a share, in the mid-range of Razorfish's guidance of a loss of 17 cents to 22 cents a share. In the 1999 fourth quarter, Razorfish made 6 cents a share. 

 Another company having problems is MarchFirst. The Chicago company is cutting more employees following a 10% workforce reduction in November. 

 MarchFirst narrowly avoided a cash crunch in late December when it received a $150 million cash infusion from Francisco Partners. 

 In November, the company lowered its estimate for the fourth quarter to a loss of 25 cents to 30 cents a share, significantly lower than its previous guidance of a net of 7 cents. Birer expects the company to report a loss of 30 cents a share. 

 "They're in such a high degree of transition that nobody is placing any real reliance on their numbers anyway,"  Birer said. "People really said, 'Look, we're just going to sit by the wayside on this one.' Frankly, are they going to stay in business?" 

 One Internet-related company analysts say will survive is Sapient. Last week the company lowered its fourth-quarter earnings estimate by 2 cents, citing slower spending by large clients and a continued decline in dot-com revenue. Still, Sapient has successfully weathered previous technology cycles and will weather this one, too, analysts say. 

 SG Cowen's Moshe Katri pointed out that Sapient has been able to woo senior managers from struggling competitors such as Razorfish and Viant. 

 Sapient, Cambridge, Mass., expects to report fourth-quarter earnings of 10 cents a share, 6 cents lower than the net for the 1999 fourth quarter. 

 DiamondCluster International Inc. (DTPI), formerly known as Diamond Technology Partners, is another company likely to endure. It is one of the few computer services companies that hasn't issued a profit warning, largely because European demand for its products remains strong. The company's recent acquisition of Spain's Cluster Consulting should boost European business even further. 

 Analysts expect Diamond, of Chicago, to meet its fiscal third-quarter EPS guidance of 30 cents a share. Diamond reported a net of 16 cents a diluted share for the third fiscal quarter of 1999. 

 -By Laura Elizabeth Pohl, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5392; laura.pohl@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010711dx1b020ka
?
 World markets round-up. 

111 words
11 January 2001
Diario de Noticias
DDNO
English
(c) 2001

 The 24.6% fall in shares in the UK's BAE after a profit warning rocked the world's stock markets yesterday. They were already nervous ahead of Yahoo! and Motorola's results. London closed down 0.45% with banking stocks leading the way. Paris fell 0.17% but Madrid rose 0.21%, aided by banking and electricity stocks. By mid afternoon, the Dow Jones was down 0.39% in New York while the Nasdaq was up 2.12% on rumours that the Federal Reserve was going to cut interest rates again in the next few weeks to boost the US economy. 

 [Original article approx 80 words] 

Document ddno000020010710dx1b000ia
?
 

 Allgon seems set to reject Remec bid, shares rise. 

 By Will Hardie 
491 words
10 January 2001
14:19
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 STOCKHOLM, Jan 10 (Reuters) - Swedish antenna maker Allgon appeared ready on Wednesday to reject a takeover bid by U.S. electronics group Remec, and its shares rose as investors re-evaluated its growth prospects. 

 Allgon's board on Monday rescinded an earlier recommendation to accept the mostly paper bid, and its largest external shareholder SEB accepted the board's advice on Tuesday. 

 Its stock, which rose as much as seven percent on Wednesday, was trading at 88 Swedish crowns, up 2.5 percent, at 1346 GMT. 

 Analysts said the bid was dead in the water. Remec stock has dropped more than 70 percent since it made the offer on September 28, cutting the value of the bid to $141 million from $488 million. 

 "This was expected. Remec's shares had been sliding for a long time. No serious shareholder would accept the bid," an analyst told Reuters. 

 "Now the bid is so cheap it is no surprise that the board isn't recommending it. And it's clear that Remec did not want to change the bid," another said. 

 Allgon Chairman Gunnar Bark and directors Ulf Sadell and Per Wejke control 27 percent of votes and SEB almost nine percent, together exceeding the one-third voting veto needed to block the bid. 

 Skandia, the only other shareholder with more than 2.5 percent of votes, declined to comment on its intentions. 

 The value of the Remec bid is down to 54 Swedish crowns per Allgon share. 

 NEW BID? 

 Allgon - which in December cut its full-year profit forecast by 21 percent - has halved in value since late November. Analysts said the stock was now looking cheap and another bid was possible but noted nothing had emerged yet. 

 "The situation has been pretty clear for three or four weeks, and no one has come forward yet. Certainly someone might step forward, but there's no particular reason to do it right now," one said. 

 Smaller Swedish peer LGP Telecom Holding burned its bridges by making an unsuccessful hostile bid for Allgon in September, which roused opposition and ill will among Allgon's shareholders and management. 

 "We are not at present interested in making a new bid for Allgon," LGP Chief Executive Mikael Gottschlich told Reuters late on Tuesday. "We encountered stiff resistance from the directors and management in Allgon, which will make it hard to do anything together." 

 Meanwhile, some investors were deciding that Allgon had been oversold after its December profit warning, noting that its Systems division was shining and the worst seemed to be over for its Microwave and Wireless Solutions section. 

 Business daily FinansTidningen recommended on Wednesday that investors buy the stock, arguing that the company's current market capitalisation was justified by the Systems division alone, which develops radio base stations, filters receivers, antennas and other gear used by wireless telephone network operators and equipment providers. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1a05tzo
?
 

 CORRECTED - Online ad cos Q4 earns to suffer from weak ad market. 

769 words
10 January 2001
21:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 In NEW YORK item "Online ad cos Q4 earns to suffer from weak ad market," please read in first para "the sluggish ad environment takes its toll on companies" instead of "the sluggish ad environment takes its toll on agencies." Corrects that DoubleClick is not an agency. 

 A corrected version follows: 

 By Jennifer Laidlaw 

 NEW YORK, Jan 10 (Reuters) - Online advertising companies are likely to paint a dismal picture when they report fourth quarter results as the sluggish ad environment takes its toll on companies such as market leader DoubleClick Inc . 

 New York-based DoubleClick will kick off the earnings season for online advertising networks on Thursday, when analysts forecast it will meet its already lowered estimates for the quarter of between break even and a 3 cent loss per share. Before a recent warning, analysts had been expecting the company to post a 2 cent per share profit. 

 In the fourth quarter of last year, the company posted a net loss, before charges, of $3.1 million, or 3 cents a share on revenues of $93.7 million. 

 With leading online media site Yahoo! Inc. , which depends heavily on online ad revenues, expected to report disappointing fourth quarter earnings Wednesday, analysts do not expect any surprises from the online ad sector after a quarter that was peppered by earnings warnings, layoffs and plummeting stock prices. 

 Other companies reporting fourth quarter earnings over the next month or so are ValueClick Inc. , Mediaplex Inc. , 24/7 Media Inc. and Avenue A Inc. . 

 "It was a pretty terrible quarter by all accounts," said Chris Hansen, an analyst at Banc of America Montgomery. 

 "Total industry revenues were probably flat to down," Hansen said. "And you had better believe that they are going to see more of the same in the first quarter." 

 Online ad companies took a hit from the collapse of many dot-coms companies, which had previously thrown money at advertising to raise their profiles, analysts said. Weaker demand for advertising and lower ad pricing in the second half of last year put pressure on earnings, they said. 

 There is a general consensus the online ad market will continue to slow in the first half of this year. Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget in a recent research report cut his 2001 online ad revenue projections to $8 billion from $9 billion, saying the market is doing worse than he expected. 

 Analysts will be closely watching DoubleClick's revenues, which are derived from its media, technology and data services, to see how well it is weathering the storm. 

 "While margins remain important, the direction of revenues in the three segments of the business, media, tech and data is the most critical," said Dana Serman of Lazard Freres & Co. 

 He expects DoubleClick to post revenues of $127 million in line with the company's own estimates of between $126 million and $129 million. He forecasts the company will see revenues in its closely watched media unit decline by 14 percent from the third quarter to about $55 million. 

 Despite the gloom, analysts said DoubleClick should outshine the rest of the sector as it remains one of the strongest players. 

 "DoubleClick is going to be one of the few survivors," said Larry Hickey, analyst at First Analysis. 

 The company's strong cash position and balance sheet places it in a competitive situation in a sector where many companies are struggling to survive, he said. The company has about $900 million in cash. 

 Another online ad company that is expected to do better than most is L90 Inc. . Analysts on average expect the company's fourth quarter loss to narrow to 20 cents a share from 48 cents in the same period last year, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 "L90 is probably having the best quarter," Banc of America's Hansen said. "They position their goods and services very well." 

 The company has done the opposite of most in these troubled times - in late November it said it was hiring 30 new employees after it beat third quarter earnings expectations. 

 Other online ad players such as Avenue A, ValueClick, and Mediaplex are expected to post more downbeat results, analysts said, with 24/7 and Engage at the back of the pack. 

 Just last week, Engage said it would cut half its workforce as it seeks to achieve profitability. In November, 24/7 said it would cut 200 jobs and expected tempered growth until mid-2001. In December, Mediaplex announced plans to lay off 28 percent of its staff. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1a03cux
?
 

 Online ad cos Q4 earns to suffer from weak ad market. 

 By Jennifer Laidlaw 
716 words
10 January 2001
18:25
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 10 (Reuters) - Online advertising companies are likely to paint a dismal picture when they report fourth quarter results as the sluggish ad environment takes its toll on agencies such as market leader DoubleClick Inc . 

 New York-based DoubleClick will kick off the earnings season for online advertising agencies Thursday, when analysts forecast it will meet its already lowered estimates for the quarter of between break even and a 3 cent loss per share. Before a recent warning, analysts had been expecting the company to post a 2 cent per share profit. 

 In the fourth quarter of last year, the company posted a net loss, before charges, of $3.1 million, or 3 cents a share on revenues of $93.7 million. 

 With leading online media site Yahoo! Inc. , which depends heavily on online ad revenues, expected to report disappointing fourth quarter earnings Wednesday, analysts do not expect any surprises from the online ad sector after a quarter that was peppered by earnings warnings, layoffs and plummeting stock prices. 

 Other companies reporting fourth quarter earnings over the next month or so are ValueClick Inc. , Mediaplex Inc. , 24/7 Media Inc. and Avenue A Inc. . 

 "It was a pretty terrible quarter by all accounts," said Chris Hansen, an analyst at Banc of America Montgomery. 

 "Total industry revenues were probably flat to down," Hansen said. "And you had better believe that they are going to see more of the same in the first quarter." 

 Online ad companies took a hit from the collapse of many dot-coms companies, which had previously thrown money at advertising to raise their profiles, analysts said. Weaker demand for advertising and lower ad pricing in the second half of last year put pressure on earnings, they said. 

 There is a general consensus the online ad market will continue to slow in the first half of this year. Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget in a recent research report cut his 2001 online ad revenue projections to $8 billion from $9 billion, saying the market is doing worse than he expected. 

 Analysts will be closely watching DoubleClick's revenues, which are derived from its media, technology and data services, to see how well it is weathering the storm. 

 "While margins remain important, the direction of revenues in the three segments of the business, media, tech and data is the most critical," said Dana Serman of Lazard Freres & Co. 

 He expects DoubleClick to post revenues of $127 million in line with the company's own estimates of between $126 million and $129 million. He forecasts the company will see revenues in its closely watched media unit decline by 14 percent from the third quarter to about $55 million. 

 Despite the gloom, analysts said DoubleClick should outshine the rest of the sector as it remains one of the strongest players. 

 "DoubleClick is going to be one of the few survivors," said Larry Hickey, analyst at First Analysis. 

 The company's strong cash position and balance sheet places it in a competitive situation in a sector where many companies are struggling to survive, he said. The company has about $900 million in cash. 

 Another online ad company that is expected to do better than most is L90 Inc. . Analysts on average expect the company's fourth quarter loss to narrow to 20 cents a share from 48 cents in the same period last year, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 "L90 is probably having the best quarter," Banc of America's Hansen said. "They position their goods and services very well." 

 The company has done the opposite of most in these troubled times - in late November it said it was hiring 30 new employees after it beat third quarter earnings expectations. 

 Other online ad players such as Avenue A, ValueClick, and Mediaplex are expected to post more downbeat results, analysts said, with 24/7 and Engage at the back of the pack. 

 Just last week, Engage said it would cut half its workforce as it seeks to achieve profitability. In November, 24/7 said it would cut 200 jobs and expected tempered growth until mid-2001. In December, Mediaplex announced plans to lay off 28 percent of its staff. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1a03cqo
?
 

 Australian Morning. 

1,442 words
10 January 2001
20:10
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 FOREX/TREASURY 

 NEW YORK - The yen, after being drubbed to 17-month lows 

 against the dollar, rebounded from the depths on Wednesday to 

 push the greenback and the euro lower, even as market pessimism 

 abounded over Japan's economy. 

 The yen was whipsawed in overseas markets amid losses in 

 Japanese stocks. But it managed to leap from its lows, assisted 

 by gains overnight versus the Australian dollar on a 

 yen-denominated bond redemption. 

 Although that action catalyzed the yen's reversal, dealers 

 said its upward momentum had all but died down during the U.S. 

 session. Still, the yen could  take another stab at its session 

 high, they added, which would push the dollar below 116 yen. 

 "Right now there is good (dollar) buying interest at 116 

 yen," said Vincent Palazzolo, chief dealer at Sumitomo Bank in 

 New York. 

 In U.S. afternoon dealings, the yen dallied near 116.40 yen 

 per dollar, well off its overnight low above 117 yen per 

 dollar and more than 0.30 percent higher on the day. 

 Elsewhere, Europe's single currency was roundly beaten by 

 the yen at midday, drifting at session lows near 109 yen 

 and shedding more than 1 percent on the day. 

 Against the dollar, the euro flirted with session lows 

 beneath 94 cents, 0.62 percent lower than its previous 

 close in sidelined U.S. afternoon dealings. 

 Meanwhile, the yen's rebound against the U.S. dollar came as 

 it rallied more than 1.5 percent against the Australian dollar 

 in Asia. It was last at around 65 per Australian dollar 

 compared with the day's troughs near 66. 

 The maturing of an Australian dollar/Japanese yen 

 dual-currency bond was said to be behind the Aussie dollar 

 selling, which then spread to across-the-board yen buying, 

 notably against the euro. 

 "There seems to be an awful lot of Australian 

 dollar/Japanese yen selling on the bond redemption talk, which 

 really dragged dollar/yen down along the way," said a trader at 

 a New York bank. 

 - - - - 

 NEW YORK - U.S. Treasuries tumbled at midday on Wednesday, 

 as a slew of new higher-yielding corporate debt swamped the 

 market and dealers booked profts from a stunning Treasury 

 market rally last week. 

 Dealers said relative stock market stability and calming 

 voices from the Federal Reserve also helped to deflate 

 expectations of how aggressively the Fed will have to cap a 

 surprise half-point interest rate cut last week. 

 Around $32 billion in higher-yielding corporate and federal 

 agency debt is swamping the market this week, taking some shine 

 away from lower-yielding Treasuries. 

 As the market awaited reports on U.S. retail sales and 

 wholesale inflation due Friday, some players scaled back their 

 assessments of the extent of future Fed rate cuts needed 

 protect a slowing economy from a deeper downturn. 

 Two-year notes, a market gauge of expected Fed policy, fell 

 sharply on Wednesday, pushing their yield up at midday to 4.75 

 percent. 

 The market is still anticipating sharp Fed rate cuts, but 

 the narrower gap between two-year yields and the fed funds 

 rates marks slightly lower expectations. 

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston President Cathy Minehan said 

 Wednesday that she expects the U.S. economy will continue 

 growing moderately in 2001, although she acknowledged the risks 

 to a record-long U.S. expansion had risen. 

 She said poor corporate profits growth, tighter credit 

 conditions, slower consumer spending and business investment 

 had all taken their toll on the economy. 

 But she predicted the economy would chug along at a modest 

 2-3 percent clip in 2001. 


At midday on Wednesday, two-year Treasury notes	



shed 6/32 to 100-22/32, yielding 4.75 percent. Five-year notes



fell 13/32 to 103-30/32, pushing their yield up to



4.82 percent.



Benchmark 10-year notes tumbled 25/32 to



104-30/32, yielding 5.09 percent, while 30-year bonds



lost 26/32 to 111-3/32, yielding 5.48 percent.



- ~- --.



In other overnight news. . .



WASHINGTON - U.S. wholesalers' stockpiles grew in November



for the 22nd straight month, while sales were unchanged, the



government said on Wednesday.



Wholesale inventories rose 0.4 percent to a seasonally



adjusted $328.93 billion in November after posting a 0.4



percent increase in the previous month, the U.S. Commerce



Department said.



Sales by wholesalers were unchanged in November at a



seasonally adjusted $250.99 billion after falling 0.1 percent



in the previous month.



With inventories building and sales remaining steady, the



stock-to-sales ratio -- a measure of how long it would take to



deplete inventories at the current sales pace -- was at 1.31



months' worth in November, unchanged from the previous month



but up from 1.28 months' in November 1999.



- - - -



NEW YORK - DaimlerChrysler AG on Wednesday prepared to sell



about $7.1 billion of global bonds, $3.1 billion more than



originally planned, even though the struggling automaker is



being forced to pay up for its myriad problems and uncertain



direction.



The German automaker is expected to pay at least half a



percentage point more in interest than rival General Motors



Corp. did on similar bonds just last week.



The DaimlerChrysler sale, expected on Thursday and coming in



a week when investors are absorbing an expected $34 billion or



more of corporate and agency bonds, is the largest corporate



bond sale since British Telecommunications Plc sold $10



billion of debt on Dec. 5.



Largely because of troubles afflicting its U.S. Chrysler



division, DaimlerChrysler is being forced to



offer yield premiums more appropriate for debt-ridden European



telecommunications companies, despite having the same credit



ratings as GM and Ford Motor Co. .



"The spreads are telling you that the market views



DaimlerChrysler's credit quality as worse," said Marvin Behm,



an automotive analyst at credit rating agency Fitch.



- - - -



LONDON - Shares in British defence group BAE Systems Plc



nosedived on Wednesday after it issued a profit warning and



said jobs would go, citing a slowdown in military orders and



cost overruns on its Nimrod patrol plane.



The world's second biggest defence contractor said it would



take a 410 million pound ($612.2 million) charge against 2000



profits. Underlying results this year would be flat, with a 115



million pound charge partially offset by synergies from its



recent acquisition of Marconi's defence business.



It added performance would not pick up until 2002. The news



sent BAE shares to a four-year low of 253 pence on the London



Stock Exchange. They closed at 268-=   pence, down 25 percent.



"The provisions are on the top end of expectations and the



underlying performance is worse than feared," said industry



analyst Tim Bennett of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.



- - - -



BOSTON - FleetBoston Financial Corp.	  , one of the top



U.S. banks, said on Wednesday it sold $1 billion of troubled



commercial loans, in a housecleaning move to cut its potential



problem loans.



FleetBoston, which received $725 million in cash and a $203



million note in the transaction, said the sale will not impact



its fourth-quarter results.



The company expected to meet analysts' estimates of 84



cents a share in the fourth quarter, up 16 percent from a



year-ago.



FleetBoston in a statement did not identify the buyer for



the loans. The Wall Street Journal in its Wednesday edition



said New York investment firm Patriarch Partners LLC bought the



portfolio with money raised from investors.



The loan sale will reduce FleetBoston's nonperforming assets



as of Dec. 31 by 10 percent, the bank said. Many U.S. banks are



facing bad loan losses as a result of higher interest rates and



a slowing U.S. economy.



- ~- --



NEW YORK - The parent of American Airlines said on



Wednesday it would spend $1.7 billion in cash to buy



beleaguered Trans World Airlines and some US Airways



assets, in deals that would give American a quarter of



the U.S. market and keep it in line with rival United



Airlines.



TWA filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection from



creditors to facilitate its buyout by American, which will mark



the disappearance of an icon of the "Golden Era" of flying.



AMR Corp., which owns American, said it would acquire the US



Airways assets from rival UAL Corp. , the parent of



United Airlines, which is planning to buy US Airways for $4.3



billion.



AMR said that purchase was contingent on the closing of



UAL's deal to buy US Airways.



If both deals are completed, American, the world's



second-largest airline, would have about 25 percent of the U.S.



market and United, the world's biggest airline, would have 26



percent.


Document lba0000020010713dx1a03coj
?
 

 RESEARCH ALERT-Bear Stearns cuts Ceridian rating. 

122 words
10 January 2001
15:07
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 10 (Reuters) - Bear Stearns on Wednesday said it cut its rating on information services company Ceridian Corp. to attractive from buy. 

 Jim Kissane joined a host of analysts in downgrading the shares, citing the company's issuance of a profit warning a day earlier. 

 "With yesterday's announcement that 2001 would be another disappointing year we have decided to finally throw in the towel," Kissane said in a research note. 

 Ceridian's stock was down nearly 23 percent at $15-3/8 in early Wednesday trade on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have traded in a range of $14-3/4 to $29-3/16 over the past 52 weeks. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1a03bik
?
 

 Technology & Health 
 Iomega Issues Earnings  Warning  As Zip Sales Drop --- Spending on Marketing Also Undermines  Profit 

 By Don Clark 
Staff Reporter
475 words
9 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
22
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Iomega Corp., a data-storage company whose business had rebounded recently, projected disappointing fourth-quarter results as sales of its Zip product line suddenly declined. 

 Iomega's earnings warning overshadowed its unveiling of an unusual line of removable disk drives that will store much more data than the Zip products. 

 The Roy, Utah, company said it expects to report net income of seven U.S. cents to nine U.S. cents (7.31 European cents to 9.4 European cents) a share, including a one-time gain that boosted net by five cents a share. Excluding that gain, Iomega said per-share profit would have been two cents to four cents, compared with analysts' consensus of 11 cents, as tallied by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Iomega projected revenue for the period at $325 million to $330 million, compared with some analysts' estimates of $390 million. For the year-earlier period, Iomega reported net income including a restructuring charge of $21.3 million, or eight cents a share, on revenue of $433.5 million. 

 The company blamed the revenue shortfall on a sudden reduction in sales of its Zip products, a line of removable drives and disks that are widely used to back up or archive data stored on personal computers. It added that net income also was affected by spending on marketing of products during the period. 

 "We began our fourth quarter with significant momentum, having just reported our second-best quarter in the company's history," said Bruce Albertson, a General Electric Co. veteran who has been chief executive for about a year. A spokesman had no immediate comment on the cause of the decline in demand, saying the company would provide more information when it reports results on Jan. 18. 

 Early Monday morning in New York, the company's stock dropped 20% to $3.25. 

 Iomega's new removable drive line, dubbed Peerless, a product to be shipped next year, was unveiled at the Consumer Electronics Show that opened in Las Vegas over the weekend. Where low-end Zip disks store 100 megabytes of data for $10, Iomega says its Peerless cartridges store at least 50 times more data for as little as $129; it plans to sell versions that hold five, 10 or 20 gigabytes of data. 

 Each Peerless cartridge is actually a sealed hard drive, about the size of a hand-held computer. It fits vertically into a docking device that connects to personal computers and costs $249. 

 Other companies have sold portable hard drives before. But Iomega officials believe Peerless is the first line to remove the drive's circuitry and place it in the docking device. That design makes cartridges smaller and more convenient to carry around. 

Document wsje000020010713dx19000jd
?
 

 More Firms  Cut  Perks To Protect Bottom Line --- Critics Say Moves Are Cosmetic, Sap Morale --- Trend Spreads to Bigger Businesses 

 By Joann S. Lublin 
Staff Reporter
1,032 words
9 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
28
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 The frills are gone. 

 Spurred by a souring economy, U.S. companies of all sizes are trimming little extras to avoid layoffs -- or curbing perks just before they bury employees under a blizzard of pink slips. 

 Management typically justifies these small-scale cutbacks as necessary belt tightening. But critics contend that this penny-pinching is generally cosmetic and invariably saps morale. "Nickel-and-dime cuts are really enervating," insists Charles Heckscher, a Rutgers University professor of management and labor relations. "How can you be proud of a company that can't even afford coffee?" 

 The trend, which surfaced among struggling Internet companies last year, is now spreading among bigger businesses. Aetna Inc., the U.S.'s biggest health insurer, notified approximately 4,000 staffers in Bluebell, Pennsylvania, last week that they must pay for their free coffee and tea after Feb. 2 -- a move expected to save $400,000 (418,000 euros) a year. (The beverages already cost employees at other Aetna locations.) The company also canceled helicopter-shuttle service last week between Bluebell, New York and its Hartford, Connecticut, headquarters. Aetna announced plans last month to cut its work force 12% during 2001. 

 Telecommunications-equipment maker Lucent Technologies Inc., struggling to reduce expenses by $1 billion this fiscal year, recently reminded all employees to stay in budget hotels and fly coach on all but very lengthy business trips. Discount brokerage Charles Schwab Corp. last month announced a slew of cost controls aimed at preventing layoffs. Among other purportedly remedial measures, Schwab urged cancellation of company-paid magazine subscriptions, professional dues and in-house catered events. 

 At beleaguered Xerox Corp., some divisions have stopped stocking watercoolers -- in addition to suggesting that employees make Xerox copies only when absolutely necessary. 

 Some cost-cutting steps may lead to the loss of valued employees. "You can go too far" in slashing spending, says Gary T. DiCamillo, chairman and chief executive officer of Polaroid Corp. "People begin to ask, `Why should I be here?' " That's largely why Mr. DiCamillo refuses to lower employee discounts on company merchandise -- even though the Cambridge, Massachusetts, manufacturer of instant cameras and film pledged to reduce spending after issuing a fourth-quarter profit warning last month. 

 One hitch: The discount for Polaroid's popular I-Zone Instant Pocket camera already has effectively disappeared. Polaroid is promoting the camera so heavily that "you can find it for under $20 at (some) retail outlets," reports spokesman Skip Colcord. Staffers pay $21.95 for the camera at company stores. The disparity doesn't bother Polaroid people because everyone is a shareholder, he adds. 

 Minor cost cuts unveiled in early November at Walker Digital Corp., did distress certain employees there. Among other things, the closely held think tank of Priceline.com Inc. founder Jay Walker decided to abandon free breakfast, lunch and dinner at its Stamford, Connecticut, headquarters. "It becomes offensive to be told you have to pay a high price for food when (the company) has wasted millions on other things," contends Stephen Mott, ex-president of Priceline Webhouse Club, the name-your-own-price grocery business that Priceline shut down in October. 

 Walker Digital began charging for food ($2.25 per muffin, for example) on Monday, Nov. 20 -- the same day that 100 of its 125 employees got layoff notices. Morale among survivors currently "is about as low as it can be," says a 42-year-old former Walker Digital professional. He went out for lunch when he lost his job that week. 

 Spokesman Kevin Goldman says Walker Digital stopped serving breakfast and dinner last month. The 30 remaining full-timers don't mind paying for lunch "because the prices are so reasonable," he said. 

 How badly small-scale cuts hurt rank-and-file morale often depends on whether senior executives share the sacrifice. A midsize financial-services concern ignited a major uproar when it tried to shrink expenses by eliminating company-provided cellphones about a year ago. Salespeople were outraged because "no other group in the company had their cellphone use restricted," recalls Lynda Ford, president of Ford Group, human-resources consultants in Rome, New York. 

 The canceled perk "became the straw that broke the camel's back" for already disaffected salespeople, says Ms. Ford, who conducted an organizational assessment for the Virginia concern at that time. Turnover rose and productivity fell within the 110-member sales force. The company soon reinstated the cellphone benefit. 

 Top Schwab leaders are sharing subordinates' cost-cutting pain -- to a degree. Numerous low-level employees volunteered to cut their pay after officers agreed to reduce their salaries between 5% and 50% this month and next, according to Glen Mathison, vice president of corporate communications. "People understand that in bad times, it's time to buckle down," he says, because Schwab "was willing to share in good times." Company cafeterias served free food all day long during the frenetic bull market early last year. 

 And while Schwab executives still get to use two kitchens at the firm's San Francisco headquarters, "we have made the food in those kitchens more basic," Mr. Mathison says. "We're certainly looking at all the little ways in which we spend money." (He declines to be more specific.) 

 Nevertheless, a companywide ban on first-class travel, imposed in November, doesn't affect Charles Schwab and David Pottruck, the company's co-chief executives. The pair continue to fly separately on a pair of corporate jets. 

 Trimming frills also can endanger customer relations by making a business appear desperate. Schwab's latest discouragement of catered meals covers internal and external get-togethers, for instance. Analysts fear that could impede efforts to bring in more wealthy clients. "If they are doing this (catering ban), that's penny-wise but pound-foolish," says Amy Butte, a Bear Stearns Cos. securities-industry analyst. 

 Schwab "caters to high net-worth individuals by providing them with investment services -- and not by treating them to catered dinners," Mr. Mathison retorts. "There's no cutback in the service we provide to customers." 

Document wsje000020010713dx19000ib
?
 

COVER STORY
NEWS
Conned investors may never see refunds SEC collection rate falls sharply since '94 

Kevin McCoy 
2,976 words
9 January 2001
USA Today
USAT
FINAL
01A
English
© 2001 USA Today.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.   All Rights Reserved.  

The Securities and Exchange Commission has fallen badly behind in its collections of illegal gains from stock swindlers and other scam artists, leaving many fraud victims waiting for refunds that might never come, a USA TODAY analysis of SEC records shows. 

The SEC, the federal government's investment industry regulator, collected 16.9% of the more than $1.7 billion in illegal gains that financial violators have been ordered to hand over since 1995. 

The recovery rate -- about $1.69 of every $10 owed -- represents a sharp drop from the 50% collection success found in a review of 1987- 94 collections by the General Accounting Office (GAO), the investigative arm of Congress. 

The SEC does not maintain comprehensive records of how much has been repaid to fraud victims, even though the agency has worked to boost its investor-friendly image and the GAO report recommended such a tracking system. 

Besides the low collection rate overall, the USA TODAY analysis found that the SEC has not collected one penny in 10 large cases involving violators who collectively owe $540 million under so- called disgorgement orders. 

Additionally, only in October 1999 did the SEC appoint its first collections administrator, an executive assigned to keep track of hundreds of cases scattered across the country as lawyers change jobs within the agency or leave for positions elsewhere. 

As a result, thousands of investors who say they were scammed in financial frauds worry whether they will ever recover even a portion of their investments. 

Claude Bamberger, 81, a Tenafly, N.J., retiree, frets about what he calls the equipment-leasing fraud that cost him much of his $130,000 investment -- reducing the savings he hopes to leave for his children. 

James O'Brian, 53, of Llano, Texas, says he has all but given up hope of recovering the $25,000 he says he lost in a business loan scam. 

Ronald Crawford, 64, a La Quinta, Calif., retiree, says he has to remind himself not to obsess over the $500,000 inheritance he says he sank into what turned out to be a business fraud. 

Though the amounts and circumstances of their losses vary, many victims are unanimous in dismay about what they view as a lackluster effort by the SEC. 

"These people just don't pursue white-collar crime the way they should," Crawford says. "I've even thought about filing a class- action suit against the government over this." 

Recovery a priority 

The low collection rate is "really unfortunate," SEC Chairman Arthur Levitt says. "And it's something we try to address. But given limited resources, if I had the choice between putting on more bill collectors or bringing more cases, I'd opt for the latter." For many violators, he adds, the difficulty of facing SEC allegations in court and being exposed to unwelcome publicity "is a far greater penalty than the financial penalty." 

Asked why there is no comprehensive tracking of refunds paid to investors burned by scams, other officials said the existing computer systems are "sufficient." The GAO report that recommended the tracking system has never been updated, and no government or private organizations have raised the issue in recent years. 

Still, Levitt and other SEC officials acknowledge that recovering illegal gains and repaying victims are part of the agency's mission. "In every instance where it's feasible, we attempt to return the money to investors. There are no exceptions," says Joan McKown, chief counsel of the agency's enforcement division. 

The agency's 1987-94 collection rate was far higher, agency officials say, because the SEC received roughly $2 billion in payments from former junk bond king Michael Milken, Prudential Securities and other major violators during those years. 

SEC collection efforts are handled either by the several dozen agency lawyers assigned to litigation or by private, court-appointed receivers. They hunt for any assets owned by the violators and seek contempt orders against those who fail to pay. 

The SEC says money the receivers get from violators isn't officially recorded as collected until courts sign off and the agency actually receives the funds. For that reason, agency officials say the recovery total may eventually be higher than the amounts currently reflected in SEC records. 

When all other collection efforts fail, the SEC turns the cases over to the U.S. Treasury Department. Over time, many cases are written off as uncollectible, SEC records show. 

To be sure, the collection work is often difficult, no matter who does the job. Some violators declare bankruptcy, forcing the SEC to wait with other creditors for any remaining funds. Other violators are in prison. Some say they're broke, a claim the SEC works to verify before granting repayment waivers. Still others have moved the illegal gains to offshore accounts, where legal barriers may thwart recovery. 

"The sophisticated kind of securities-law violator the SEC goes after will have transferred his assets or hidden them," says Judith Starr, an SEC assistant chief litigation counsel. "He's not going to be sitting there on a pile of gold, sticking his tongue out." 

Robert E. Brennan certainly wasn't. The business executive waged a long federal court fight against the SEC's right to collect a nearly $72 million 1995 repayment judgment for what the agency charged was a massive securities fraud against customers of his First Jersey Securities. The U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear his appeal in 1997. 

Aided by SEC lawyers, a bankruptcy trustee has taken control of the finances of a Colts Neck, N.J., golf course and other assets that government lawyers say Brennan transferred to partnerships in a bid to thwart collection efforts. 

But Brennan has fought on while he prepares for a new court date this month, this time on criminal charges of bankruptcy fraud. In recent months, his attorneys have battled with the SEC over the Palm Beach Princess, a Florida-based gambling ship that the government says provided Brennan with a secret income shielded by trusts based in Gibraltar. 

Still, the SEC hasn't collected anything in the case -- at least not yet. "The receiver has Brennan's golf course. But it's subject to the bankruptcy court proceedings," says agency spokesman John Heine. 

Brennan's attorney, Michael Critchley, did not return calls, and Brennan did not respond to a message left on the answering machine at the golf course executive office. 

Tough to collect 

Similarly, the SEC has yet to recover any of the nearly $147.2 million owed by the agency's top non-payer: Richard Goettlich, former president of New Jersey-based First Interregional Equity and a subsidiary, First Interregional Advisors. The parent company was a brokerage that has since been liquidated. The now-bankrupt subsidiary was an equipment lease-financing firm. 

Goettlich pleaded guilty in 1998 to securities fraud for a scheme in which the subsidiary repeatedly resold identical leases on government-rented photocopying machines to investors such as Bamberger and about 7,000 others. The firm collected about $295 million from investors, nearly three times its actual lease inventory, court records show. 

Richard Hill, a court-appointed receiver in the case, says he has located "very little at this point in the way of assets from Mr. Goettlich" that could be used to repay investment victims. 

Bamberger says investigators cautioned he probably would recover no more than 35% of his investment as the receiver identifies and seizes assets from the former Goettlich firms. Bamberger, former owner of a New Jersey plastics company, says the loss has cut the amount he can pass to his children. 

"They're not exactly swimming in money," Bamberger says. "They're saving for the education of my grandchildren and can ill afford to lose money like this." 

Goettlich is awaiting a federal court sentencing in New Jersey. He did not return messages left on an answering machine at his Florida home. His attorney, Jerome Ballaroto, also did not return calls. 

Crawford, the La Quinta, Calif., retiree, is waiting for the SEC to collect and redistribute $24 million that federal prosecutors say Brent A. Wagman, a former Texas oil and gas company executive, bilked from more than 500 elderly investors in about 20 states. The prosecutors and SEC say the fraud involved the sale of business loans for Redbank Petroleum and AmeriTech Petroleum. Wagman lured investors with assurances the notes were risk-free, then diverted the funds to other ventures, authorities say. 

Wagman fled to Panama last year during an investigation. FBI agents caught him and returned him to Dallas, where he pleaded guilty to securities fraud and contempt of court. On Dec. 20 in Dallas federal court, Wagman was sentenced to five years in prison and ordered to pay more than $19 million in restitution. 

Crawford, a retired medical records administrator at UCLA Medical Center, says he is "furious with the government and the receivers" while awaiting the closing chapter in what he calls the scam that cost him the bulk of his inheritance. 

While the loss hasn't left him broke, Crawford nonetheless feels the SEC should pay as much attention to repaying victims of financial scams as to stopping the scammers. "I want my money back from somebody, somewhere. And I will not rest until I get it," he says. 

Crawford could be in for a long wait. The court-appointed receiver in the Wagman case, Joseph Wielebinski, says he's only recovered a few hundred thousand dollars, chiefly from the sale of a Florida home owned by Wagman. 

Despite the frustrated collection effort in the Wagman case and others, the SEC has had a few notable successes the past six years. Many, like the case against Milken, involved well-known investment industry people who sought to clear their legal and financial slates and reputations by paying up. 

PaineWebber, for instance, paid $40 million in a 1996 agreement to establish a claims fund for conservative clients whom SEC officials said the investment giant steered to inappropriately risky investments. The firm settled without acknowledging or denying guilt. 

A staffing issue? 

The SEC could improve its performance by expanding the staff of several dozen attorneys now assigned to collection cases, says Richard Scheff, the Philadelphia lawyer for a violator who was recently forced to turn over about $1 million in assets. Leaving cases to receivers, who are paid from the funds they recover, means less money to repay fraud victims, Scheff says. 

"The SEC tries to get a big splash in the press for disgorgement cases but doesn't do very much to actually collect," he says. 

While defending their record, SEC officials say receivers have greater legal clout because they are official officers of the court. 

They add that pursuing more of the collections in-house would necessitate hiring bankruptcy law experts -- the bill collectors cited by Levitt -- a costly change of focus for an agency whose main mission is securities regulation. 

Whatever it takes, says James O'Brian, who's smarting over the $25,000 a North Carolina broker persuaded him to sink into the AmeriTech business loan fraud run by Wagman. 

"In my opinion, they should do more to go after any money he has, any place." 

Contributing: Noelle Knox 

TEXT OF INFO BOXES BEGINS HERE 

SEC recovers only a tiny portion of illegal profits 

The government's financial industry regulator collects only a fraction of the illegal profits reaped by pyramid scheme artists and other alleged securities law violators. Amounts shown in millions:  


Year      Estimated fraud  Amount recovered    Percentage recovered
1995      $302       $61          20.2%
1996      $160      $68         42.5%
1997      $133       $35          26.3%
1998      $312      $87         27.9%
1999      $544      $29          5.3%
2000      $278       $12          4.3%
Total      $1,729       $292         16.9%
 

Source: USA TODAY compilation and analysis of Securities and Exchange Commission data 

Analysis of SEC records shows top violators from 1995-2000 who have failed to turn over illegal profits 

The Securities and Exchange Commission has been unable to recover anything from dozens of violators ordered by courts to turn over illegal profits. The top non- payers from 1995 to 2000, according to a USA TODAY analysis of SEC records: 

* Richard Goettlich has been ordered to repay $147.2 million. He awaits federal sentencing on a securities fraud conviction in New Jersey as prosecutors prepare for a criminal trial against his father and other relatives. His attorney, Jerome Ballaroto, did not return messages left with secretaries at his office. Goettlich did not return messages left at his Florida home. 

* HGI Inc., a former Jericho, N.Y., brokerage, has been ordered to repay $90.3 million. The SEC says the company "systematically defrauded investors" in a boiler-room scheme involving sales of high- risk securities. Martin Unger, the attorney for former HGI chairman Mark Hanna, said a court-ordered stay has put the case on hold while federal prosecutors weigh potential criminal charges. 

* Robert E. Brennan has been ordered to repay $71.5 million for what the SEC charged was a massive securities fraud against former customers of his First Jersey Securities firm during the mid-1980s. He is preparing for a federal bankruptcy fraud trial in New Jersey. His attorney, Michael Critchley, did not return calls. Brennan did not respond to messages left at his New Jersey golf course and real estate complex. 

* Sam Antar has been ordered to repay $57.5 million for alleged insider trading of stock in Crazy Eddie Inc., a now-defunct New York City-area discount electronics chain. Once headed by Antar's son, Eddie, the company was at the center of a major stock fraud during the 1980s. Antar is challenging the SEC collection effort. His attorney, Bruce Goldstein, did not return calls left with secretaries at his law office. Antar's son has finished serving a prison term for the fraud. 

* Euro-Scotia Funding (USA), a Delaware affiliate of a British Virgin Islands corporation, has been ordered to pay $43.1 million. The company was run by Robert Colgin Wilson, a former Florida investment promoter. In 1998, he was convicted and sentenced to 57 months in prison for what authorities said was a securities fraud conspiracy that led to the collapse of a Florida insurance firm. Wilson's attorney, David Roth, did not return messages left at his Florida law office. 

* Anthony J. Marino has been ordered to pay $31.5 million for what an SEC lawsuit alleged was his role in a bank securities scheme that defrauded investors. He was previously convicted of securities fraud in an unrelated Nevada case. Marino is in a Costa Rica prison on other fraud charges, Utah County investigators say. His attorney, Max Wheeler, did not respond to messages left with secretaries at his law office. 

* Robert N. Taylor has been ordered to pay $29.5 million. He is serving a 41-month federal prison sentence for running the Better Life Club of America, a Washington, D.C.-based Ponzi scheme that prosecutors and the SEC say defrauded hundreds of investors. 

* Basic Energy and Affiliated Resources owes $24.7 million. SEC investigators say the former Michigan firm sold high-risk energy investments to more than 1,000 clients. Several former executives of the firm settled allegations in an SEC lawsuit by agreeing to repay profits from the alleged scam. Elmer Heist, a Kentucky lawyer whom court records show represented the firm, did not respond to messages seeking comment left on his office answering machine. 

* Brent A. Wagman, a former Texas oil and gas company executive, has been ordered to pay $24 million for defrauding hundreds of investors in a business loan scheme. Wagman, who was sentenced to a five-year prison term on Dec. 20, could not be reached for comment because he has been held in federal custody since the FBI arrested him in Panama. 

* Ronald H. Michel has been ordered to pay $20.5 million. The court judgment against the California businessman and several co- defendants stems from an SEC lawsuit that accused the group of running a telemarketing scam that sold shares in wireless cable TV firms. Michel, who is awaiting a federal trial in California on money- laundering and other charges, could not be located for comment. His bankruptcy attorney, Daniel Lev, did not return messages. <HR> 

What to do if you suspect fraud 

You risked your savings on what seemed like a sure thing. But lately you've been sweating some warning signs. A profit check failed to arrive. The financial statements seem odd. What should you do? Some tips from government regulators: 

* Seek answers quickly. By law, you have only a limited time to start legal action. 

* If you did your homework when you invested, you got your investment agreement and other details in writing. The paperwork could be your lifeline if the investment turns out to be a fraud. 

* Contact your broker and pinpoint the problem. Try to determine who, if anyone, might be at fault. 

* Not satisfied? Bring your questions to your broker's supervisor. 

* If that doesn't work, contact the compliance department at the main office of your broker's firm. Request a written response within 30 days. 

* More worried than ever? Contact the Securities and Exchange Commission's Office of Investor Education and Assistance. 

The office has an online complaint form at the SEC Web site. Go to www.sec.gov. Click on the Investor Assistance and Complaints button. 

* You can also contact the nearest office of the NASD Regulation office. The agency has its own online complaint form at its Web site, www.nasdr.com/2100.htm.  

PHOTO, Color, Dan MacMedan for USA TODAY; PHOTO, Color; Caption: "I want my money back": Ronald Crawford shows ads that he says lured him to lose money in a fraud. 

Document usat000020010713dx19000hj
?
 

 SAP surges as investors look to tech majors. 

 By James Mackenzie 
708 words
9 January 2001
17:05
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 FRANKFURT, Jan 9 (Reuters) - Shares of SAP extended a rally on Tuesday, sparked by better-than-expected fourth quarter results released on Monday, as investors looked for sanctuary in a turbulent tech environment. 

 Europe's largest software maker wrongfooted markets at the beginning of the week, pre-releasing fourth quarter results which suggested it had so far avoided the fallout from slower IT spending in the United States. 

 The share jumped as much as 23 percent at one point on Monday as short sellers who had been encouraged by rumours of a profit warning ran for cover. 

 The share, which had hit a 12-month low the week before, continued the rise on Tuesday and by 1656 GMT was 10.5 percent higher at 158 euros, shrugging off tech sector weakness prompted by disappointing handset sales from Finnish mobile phone group Nokia. 

 "It's pretty clear by now that SAP has been one of the winners from the dot.com crisis," Thomas Meier at fund managers Union Investment in Frankfurt said. "The figures were very good." 

 BLUE CHIPS SHOW RESILIENCE 

 Analysts noted that larger software companies appear to have weathered the fourth quarter turbulence much better than their smaller counterparts. 

 SAP's arch rival, Oracle said in mid-December it expected results for the third quarter to match analyst expectations and it has been extremely bullish about prospects for the sector. 

 "The fallout in the U.S. which caught Intershop mainly affected niche companies. SAP's direct competitors have held up very well, so perhaps it shouldn't have been a surprise they were alright," one London-based analyst said. 

 Oracle, which is about 27 percent above a 12-month low set in November also rose strongly on Tuesday, adding over four percent to trade at 31 1/4. 

 However, even while welcoming the fourth quarter results, analysts cautioned that the extremely uncertain U.S. outlook was still muddying the picture. 

 "The big question for us is not the fourth quarter, it's what they're going to say about 2001 later in January," Joe Bracken, software analyst at J.P. Morgan in London said. He said he saw further upside for SAP shares if the outlook does not worsen. 

 CSFB UPGRADES 

 Following ABN Amro and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, which upgraded SAP on Monday, CSFB on Tuesday switched its previously cautious stance on the stock from "Hold" to "Buy" and set a price target of 200 euros. 

 Goldman Sachs, which maintained its Recommended List rating, said that as a large company with a relatively low valuation, SAP was a sensible bet in a difficult tech market. 

 "In a tough environment, in which IT spending is likely to slow down, investors first need to decide if they want exposure to a sector where the risks are high and the earnings visibility poor," Goldman analysts wrote in a note. 

 "If so, we recommend investing in large companies with a broad product offering and exposure to high growth areas such as SSM (supply chain management), CRM (customer relationship management) and e-procurement." 

 SAP, which has traded at a steep discount to its main sector rival Oracle has narrowed the gap since announcing fourth quarter earnings. 

 On Friday, the share was trading at about 41 times a median of 2001 earnings estimates, according to Reuters 3000 data against 60 times for Oracle. By late Tuesday, SAP was trading at 51.7 times 2001 estimates, compared with 61 times for Oracle. 

 INVESTORS RETURN 

 Traders said SAP had been squeezed higher on Monday by heavy short covering. "But it looked pretty well supported by new investment money as well and today it looks like there's quite a bit of fresh buying," one dealer in Frankfurt said. 

 SAP shares had been battered along with other software stocks by last week's shock profit warning from e-commerce specialist Intershop which blamed spending delays by U.S. customers for a sharp decline in fourth quarter revenues. 

 The warning, which was followed by a separate warning from U.S. web infrastructure group Inktomi , worsened fears that technology revenues could be squeezed as a slowing U.S. economy prompts firms to delay or cancel investment projects. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1903cxp
?
 Jobs Gives 'Em What They Want 

 Antone Gonsalves 
1,105 words
9 January 2001
08:00
CMP TechWeb
CMPT
English
 Copyright 2001 CMP Media Inc. 

 SAN FRANCISCO -- Steve Jobs on Tuesday gave Apple enthusiasts what they wanted, unveiling at Macworld faster Macs, a new PowerBook and new software that the company hopes will jumpstart sales following a dismal 2000. 

 In a two-hour keynote, the chief executive of Apple Computer Inc., Cupertino, Calif., displayed before a packed auditorium at the Moscone Center four new PowerMacs with clock speeds as high as 733 MHz, a PowerBook G4 made of lightweight titanium and new software for burning CDs or DVDs with music or video. 

 Jobs also announced that OS X, Apple's long-awaited next generation operating system, would be available in stores March 24 for $129, and would start shipping pre-installed in Apple hardware in July. 

 "He delivered everything that we needed," Chris Lange, a Mac and network engineer at Promega Corp. in Madison, Wis., said. "We needed new hardware, we needed fantastic new software, and we needed OS X to be thrown out to us. He nailed every single one. It's a grand slam." 

 While Jobs wowed many of the 5,000 Mac faithful attending the conference and exposition, it remained to be seen whether the announcements impressed Wall Street, which has been looking for new applications that can drive hardware sales. 

 Apple stock was trading at 17.3281, up 0.7656, or 4.62 percent, in late afternoon trading Tuesday on the Nasdaq. 

 Aware of the need for "killer applications" for OS X, Jobs said 1,200 new applications would be available this year from ISVs, including 350 that have already been announced. He expected the bulk of the applications to be released in the summer to coincide with the shipping of Macs pre-installed with OS X. 

 David Bailey, research analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison, New York, said he was upbeat on the new software and Apple's prospects over the long haul. 

 "A good indication is the Worldwide Developers Conference, which last year drew 3,600 attendees, up from 1,800 the year before," Bailey said. "We think the new OS is a major step forward for them, but until the third-party applications are available we don't think it'll dramatically increase system sales, and those apps will probably come out over 12 months." 

 Jobs' keynote was peppered with "Ohs" and "Ahs" and applause from the audience as he unveiled the company's new products. 

 The PowerBook G4 Titanium, which comes in two wireless-ready models, gives customers the faster notebook they wanted over the current PowerBook G3. 

 The new notebooks are 1 inch thick, have a 15.2-inch screen, a full size keyboard, a DVD drive and weigh 5.3 pounds. The 400 MHz model sells for $2,599 and the other at 500 MHz for $3,499. The latter also comes with double the amount of RAM and three times the hard drive space. Both are available at the end of January. 

 In announcing new software, Jobs said Apple was adopting a strategy of making the Mac the "hub of our new emerging digital lifestyle." 

 Jobs said people need a powerful computer to run complex applications, get on the Internet and to store data, music and video that can be shared by or downloaded from devices such as PDAs, camcorders, cameras and MP3 players. 

 "We don't think the PC is dying at all," Jobs said. "We don't think it's moving away from the center (of the computer industry). We think it's evolving." 

 As part of Apple's new vision for the Mac, Job introduced iTune and iDVD and new hardware called SuperDrive that enables users to play and record CDs and DVDs. SuperDrive, which was developed with Pioneer Corp., will ship with Apple's new 733 MHz PowerMac G4 unveiled at the show. 

 With iTune, Apple is trying to fix last year's misstep of focusing on video, while consumers wanted audio. While Apple pre-installed DVD drives and iMovie video editing software into iMacs and iBooks, PC users were downloading music and recording it on their computers' CD R/W drives. 

 "We're late to this party, but we're going to leapfrog," Jobs said. 

 ITune, which is free and currently available on Apple's Web site for the Mac OS 9, enables users to record from CDs in a compressed music format and "burn" the music onto blank CDs. The new software will also record on DVDs. 

 ITune only works on CD R/W and SuperDrives shipping with the Mac, but third-party support is planned for the future, Jobs said. 

 Like with iTune, Apple focused on ease of use with iDVD, which will be standard on the company's 733 MHz model, the company's fastest PowerMac. For professional users, Apple will sell DVD Studio Pro for $995, starting at the end of Jaunary. 

 Jobs said iDVD enables users to record video at twice the time it takes to play it, so a 10-minute video can be recorded and stored in 20 minutes. In addition, DVDs recorded with the software can be played on third-party DVD players that play movies on TVs. 

 Apple will sell blank DVDs for recording for $10 apiece, or in packs of five for $49.95, Jobs said. 

 Driven by the need for more power to run video and to close the "megahertz gap" with PCs, Jobs introduced the 733 MHz PowerMac G4, one of four new PowerMacs unveiled at Macworld. The other G4 models were 466 MHz, 533 MHz and 667 MHz. Prices for all four models ranged from $1,699 to $3,499. 

 Prices for current PowerMacs, which come in 450 MHz and 500 MHz models, have recently been slashed by as much as 30 percent. 

 All four of the new PowerMacs will support only single processors - the older, highest-end model supported two -- and have 5 PCI slots. The two lower-end models are available now, while the higher-end models will be available in February, Jobs said. All but the 733 MHz model will come with CD-RW drives. 

 Tuesday's announcements followed a year of hard times for Apple, which issued a profit warning in September that was followed by rebates on several of its product lines, and then another profit warning in December. On Jan. 1, the day after the rebates expired, Apple cut prices on its high-end computers. 

 Market research firm PC Data said sales for Apple dropped 40 percent in December 2000, compared with the same period the year before. Sales for PCs during the same timeframe dropped 24 percent. 

Document cmpt000020010711dx1900038
?
 

 Tech Stock Focus: E*Trade Australia In The Doldrums 

 By Graham Morgan 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
823 words
8 January 2001
00:18
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 SYDNEY -(Dow Jones)- Online broker E*Trade Australia Ltd. (A.ETR), which once basked in the reflected light of a booming technology sector, has come down to earth with a thump. Heightening competitive pressures have forced it to cut brokerage fees and issue a profit warning, foreshadowing tough trading conditions this year. 

 E*Trade Australia is now just a shadow of its former self with a market capitalization A$47 million, barely 5% of its value 18 months ago, and analysts see little chance of upside in the medium-term. The Australian company is a licensed franchisee of U.S.-based E*Trade Group Inc. (EGRP). 

 The online broker has access to a large pool of retail investors via an alliance with Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) and about 25% of the local market, but investors have recently dumped the stock, prompting a query by the stock exchange on E*Trade's plummeting share price. 

 The stock touched an all-time intraday high of A$11.55 in April 1999, but was trading at 83 Australian cents by the end of last year. It closed Friday at A$0.77 up 2 cents. 

 "Brokerage rates were reduced in April 2000," E*Trade said Wednesday in response to a request from the stock exchange for an explanation behind the share price decline. "It is therefore expected that the loss for the current six month period (to June 30) will exceed the loss for the prior period (to Dec. 31) by more than 15%." 

 Also, E*Trade noted trading volumes for second half of 2000, were lower than those in the first half of the year, reinforcing the latest survey by independent Internet research firm www.consult Pty. Ltd. 

 Chiko Wong, senior analyst at www.consult, estimates there were 120,000 regular online traders in Australia by the end of 2000, well below his earlier forecast of 160,000 users calculated before the slide in technology stocks in April. 

 "The growth has slowed down after the fall in the stock market, and so the trading frequencies for the year were lower than we had originally expected," Wong said, noting the number of general Internet users grew from 3 million to about 3.3 million during last year. 


The jitters began after the technology sector crash in April, as
trading volumes shriveled and E*Trade, along with its competitors,
slashed brokerage fees. E*Trade cut its individual equity trading fee to
A$29 from A$39, and has since cut its lowest rate to A$21.95, putting
further pressure on profit margins.
-
     Online Trading Companies Face Difficult Year
-



E*Trade's fee structure is comparable to that of new arrival Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCH) but still more expensive than similar services
offered by Westpac Banking Corp. (WBK), National Australia Bank Ltd.
(NAB) and Commonwealth Securities, a unit of Commonwealth Bank of
Australia Ltd. (A.CBA), which charges A$16.30 a trade.



ComSec has around 55% of the online trading market - or about 537,000
clients - and is allied to ecorp Ltd. (A.ECP), the online arm of Kerry
Packer's Publishing & Broadcasting Ltd. (A.PUB).



"Online trading companies are in for a difficult time. All but those
that can demonstrate a revenue model...are going to struggle this year,"
said Brent Mitchell, technology analyst at Shaw Stockbroking.



"As for E*Trade, I don't think their case is strong enough in terms of
the amount of trades going through and the pricing of the trades. A lot
of their customer base isn't generating revenue but they've still got
client holding costs," Mitchell added.



Another problem for companies like E*Trade is the limited customer
pool in a country of 19 million people and the profusion of online
brokers -
www.consult
monitors 18 of the most significant brokers -
which will inevitably lead to consolidation in the industry, analysts
say.



"E*Trade isn't in a particularly strong position, it has signaled a
rough year ahead, which is warning enough," said a Sydney-based
technology analyst who asked no to be named.



"I don't think E*Trade will go under simply because it has the
branding power, but the company is looking highly exposed because its
near its share price at record low levels with no medium-term upside,"
the analyst said.



Melbourne-based ANZ has a 10% stake in the company, following E*Trade
shareholder approval of the online share trading alliance with the bank
in October, 1999. E*Trade will include an abnormal charge of A$18.1
million in its upcoming first half accounts in relation to shares it
issued to ANZ to shore up the alliance.



-By Graham Morgan, Dow Jones Newswires; 61-2-8235-2962;
graham.morgan@dowjones.com
-0- 08/01/01 00-18G


5073 55121

Document dji0000020010711dx18003fx
?
 

retail
BAD HOLIDAY HAMMERS NORDSTROM -  

Thomas J. Ryan  
1,092 words
8 January 2001
Women's Wear Daily
WWD
2
English
Copyright 2001 Fairchild Publications, Inc. All Rights Reserved  

NEW YORK -- Nordstrom Inc. became the latest casualty of the  

weak holiday season, and the damage was severe.  

The Seattle-based chain said the sales shortfall and markdown  

activity would result in earnings for the fourth quarter of  

between 18 and 23 cents a share, far below Wall Street's  

consensus estimate of 38 cents. In the year-ago fourth quarter,  

it earned 50 cents a share.  

``December performance was disappointing, and it represents a  

large portion of our business for the fourth quarter,'' said  

Blake Nordstrom, president. ``Our challenge is to compete  

successfully, regardless of the external environment, and to  

improve merchandise execution so we have what our customers are  

looking for.''  

The forecast -- Nordstrom's second profit warning in four  

months -- sent the company's shares lower, down $1.50, or 7.4  

percent, to $18.88 on Friday in over-the-counter trading. The  

stock's 52-week trading range is $14.19 to $34.50. The drop in  

the stock wasn't particularly conspicuous on a day when the Dow  

Jones Industrial Average tumbled 250 points, or 2.3 percent, to  

close at 10,662 and the Nasdaq plummeted 6.2 percent to end the  

day at 2,407.65.  

December's same-store sales declined 2.9 percent. Sales were  

down in all regions except the East Coast. Only women's and  

children's shoes, juniors and cosmetics posted comp gains.  

Comparable-store sales fell 3.1 percent at its full-line stores  

and 0.8 percent at its Rack off-price division, which also  

includes its Faconnable stores and one clearance chain.  

On Friday, Nordstrom joined a deluge of retailers that one day  

earlier acknowledged that weak December sales would cause  

fourth-quarter profits to miss Wall Street estimates. The list  

included The Limited, which said it would miss Wall Street's  

consensus estimates by 15 to 19 cents a share; Tiffany & Co.,  

falling short by 9 cents; Abercrombie & Fitch, between 8 and 10  

cents; Ann Taylor, 3 to 7 cents; Gap, by 3 to 5 cents, and TJX  

Cos., by 3 cents. Many analysts on Thursday also trimmed  

estimates on Target and Wal-Mart by a penny or two due to sales  

falling short.  

The magnitude of Nordstrom's shortfall from Wall Street's  

targets -- 15 to 20 cents -- slightly surprised analysts,  

but didn't shock them because of the tough Christmas selling  

climate and internal issues that have confronted Nordstrom since  

the fall, including new management.  

``You look at the other softlines retailers,'' said Michael  

Shea, at Davidson & Co. ``They had a terrible December, and  

Nordstrom is no exception. Now layered on top of that are these  

internal issues, and you have an earnings miss.''  

In September, the founding Nordstrom family resumed control of  

the chain with fourth-generation family heir Blake Nordstrom  

becoming president and his father Bruce Nordstrom coming out of  

retirement to return as chairman. The Nordstrom family owns 35  

percent of the stock. John Whitacre, chairman and chief  

executive, as well as Michael Stein, vice president and chief  

financial officer, had resigned. A search for a new cfo is still  

under way.  

Besides the tough selling climate, analysts believe the chain  

must have been impacted by the management turnover, which also  

included the resignation in September of Marty Wikstrom,  

formerly executive vice president of its full-line store group.  

Peter Nordstrom, Blake's brother, took over that post. Also,  

some disturbances likely came from the firm's ongoing efforts to  

overhaul its information systems.  

``They were undertaking so many things from a large  

remerchandising effort, a massive systems transformation effort  

and a major change in management that, clearly, execution issues  

are being felt,'' said Shari Schwartzman Eberts, at J.P. Morgan  

Securities.  

Nordstrom's guidance pulled down earnings estimates for the full  

year to between $1.01 and $1.06, which compares with $1.50 in  

1999. Eberts said that though Nordstrom's markdown activity is  

``severe,'' it is unlikely to clear all excess inventory and,  

consequently, gross margin pressures should continue into the  

first quarter. As a result, she slashed her estimate for 2001 to  

$1.15 from $1.40.  

Steve Kernkraut at Bear Stearns cut his 2001 estimate to $1.12  

from $1.30.  

``We believe that Nordstrom shares are vulnerable for a pullback  

nearer to their annual lows of $14 as there is little evidence  

yet of management's turnaround of this franchise,'' said  

Kernkraut.  

Less aggressive was Jennifer Black at Wells Fargo Van Kasper,  

who trimmed her estimate for 2001 to $1.44 from $1.52. She also  

cut her rating on the stock to ``buy'' from ``strong buy,''  

given the unlikelihood that Nordstrom will be releasing strong  

results for the next several months, but she remained fairly  

bullish.  

``Nordstrom embodies a unique retail environment and a strong  

brand name that is now back in the hands of passionate leaders,  

and we recommend aggressively buying the stock should it drop  

into the midteens,'' said Black in a research note.  

The new management team appears to be slowing down the  

turnaround process after assessing that former management rushed  

many changes. In order to fix its flagging women's business,  

which has been its weakest spot recently, the firm had hiked its  

mix of contemporary merchandise to between 30 and 40 percent  

from 10 percent. The move failed to stimulate sales. Nordstrom  

recently ditched a $40 million ``Re-Invent Yourself'' campaign  

-- its first national ad launch -- aimed at younger customers  

after it alienated core customers.  

Last week, the company disclosed that it would close its Yakima,  

Wash., unit in March.  

Nordstrom said at an analyst meeting earlier this month that it  

is now looking to tweak its women's merchandise assortments,  

roll out new inventory technology and realign its various buying  

organizations by merchandise category. A $150 million to $200  

million ``perpetual inventory'' systems overhaul should start  

getting phased in by February 2002 to help in such areas as  

assortment planning, markdown planning, replenishment and  

tracking merchandise through the pipeline. The company also is  

focusing more on expenses, cutting back the 35 different  

consulting companies it employed and reducing TV advertising.  

Still, the majority of analysts are maintaining ``hold'' ratings  

on the stock and are taking a wait-and-see attitude on new  

management.  

``I guess you have to give them a chance, but I would have liked  

to see some new blood,'' said Davidson's Shea. ``That same group  

has been in there a long time.''  

Document WWD0000020040514dx18005lm
?
 

 RESEARCH ALERT-Nice  cut  to "Hold". 

165 words
7 January 2001
10:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 JERUSALEM, Jan 7 (Reuters) - Israel's Bank Hapoalim cut its rating on beleaguered digital voice and data recording company Nice Systems to "Hold" from "Buy" following the company's fourth quarter profit warning. 

 In a research report dated January 3 and released on Sunday, Bank Hapoalim said it expects Nice will continue to suffer from a revenue shortfall in 2001, especially for its recently launched customer experience management (CEM) technologies. 

 "We do not expect substantial changes for the better for the company's results in the coming quarters and we expect that an improvement in the company's situation, if it happens, would be in the second half of 2001," the report said. 

 Nice shares have shed roughly three-quarters of their value since a profit warning was issued late last month. Midday on Sunday the stock traded down 5.6 percent at 60.20 shekels, compared with a 2.1 percent decline for the wider Tel Aviv market. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1704cak
?
 

 Building Products Companies Faced Tough 4Q >SHW MAS CXP 

 By Jolyn Okimoto 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
1,579 words
6 January 2001
00:32
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 PALO ALTO, Calif. -(Dow Jones)- A cold, wet winter, higher fuel prices and continuing product oversupply are a few of the factors that made the fourth quarter less than memorable for some building-products companies. 

 Weather often plays a major role in the fourth quarter, but the contrast between this year and last is striking, analysts said. 

 "A year ago we had very favorable weather, but this year has been much colder and rainier, so it will be a tough compare," said Trip Rodgers, an analyst at UBS Warburg. 

 Jack Kasprzak, an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets, called it the country's first real winter in three years. 


Higher diesel prices also have hurt companies by increasing delivery
costs, while rising natural gas prices have affected wallboard producers
like Centex Construction Products Inc. (CXP) and USG Corp. (USG),
Rodgers said.
   Margaret Whelan, another analyst at UBS Warburg, said the main
problems building-products companies faced this quarter are same ones
that dogged them for much of the year: slowing demand and higher
costs. **   Cleveland paint maker Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW) is an
example. After issuing a profit warning last quarter, the company
warned on Dec. 4 that fourth-quarter earnings would fall below
expectations due to weaker demand for exterior paint and higher raw
materials costs.



Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial now expect
Sherwin-Williams to earn 28 cents a share, down from the company's
previous guidance of 34 cents to 38 cents. The company earned 34 cents
in the year-ago quarter.



Merrill Lynch analyst Joseph Sroka expects 29 cents. But he is
concerned about weakness in the company's traditionally strong store
segment, which he said was mentioned for the first time in the December
warning.



"I think the fourth quarter is going to be the trough of a very
difficult year," Whelan said. "I think everyone's going to be glad to
see the back end of it."



Housing Numbers Hold



Most housing numbers are providing some reason for guarded optimism.



Building permits rose 2.6% in November to an annual rate of 1.59
million, compared with a 1.8% increase in October. U.S. housing starts
rose 2.2% to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.56 million in
November, the biggest jump in nine months.



But a 13.7% increase in multi-family units masked a 0.4% decline in
single-family homes. Also, new home sales fell 2.2% in November.



In a long-awaited move, the Federal Reserve on Wednesday lowered
interest rates by a half-percent - a larger cut than expected and well
before the Fed's scheduled meeting for Jan. 30-31. Analysts said they
hope the cut is just the first of a series by the Fed and that it might
lead to new building or remodeling.



Wallboard Oversupply Continues



Darin Wyatt, an analyst at Sanders Morris Harris in Houston, doesn't
mince words when it comes to the fourth-quarter outlook for companies
that sell wallboard.



"My guess is that business is going to be pretty crappy this quarter,
mainly due to too much supply of wallboard," he said.



Excess capacity in the wallboard industry has depressed prices all
year, cutting into profits for companies such as Centex Construction
Products and USG.



"The industry didn't add much to its capacity in the 90s and now
they've added too much," said UBS Warburg's Rodgers. From 1999 through
early 2001, the wallboard industry will have increased capacity by about
a third, he said.



Prices, which peaked last year in the mid-$160 per thousand
square-feet range, have fallen to the $80 to $90 range and are likely to
remain depressed until high-cost, or less-efficient plants are retired,
he said.



BB&T Capital Markets' Kasprzak said prices could fall to the $70 to
$75 range. "Wallboard gets worse before it gets better," he said.



Barbara Allen, an analyst at Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder, said $70 would
match wallboard's lowest price in 20 years. Few plants can turn a profit
at that level. But USG, with an estimated production cost of $50 to $55
per thousand square- feet, is an exception, she said.



Both Allen and Kasprzak expect Chicago-based USG to report 70 cents a
share, while Rodgers said he expects 78 cents. Analysts have a consensus
of 74 cents compared with $2.32 in the year-ago period.



Centex, Dallas, which makes both wallboard and cement, is expected to
earn 76 cents a share for its fiscal third quarter ended Dec. 31,
compared with $1.52 a year ago. Wyatt expects 79 cents, but said that
could be "a touch too high," given that Centex's cement business, though
stable, hasn't made up for weakness in wallboard.



Asbestos Woes For Armstrong



Following in the path of Owens-Corning (OWC) last quarter, Armstrong
World Industries, the building and construction-materials unit of
Armstrong Holdings Inc. (ACK), filed for protection under Chapter 11,
citing costly asbestos litigation.



Asbestos worries have hurt USG, and is one of the factors that has led
to the decline in the company's stock price this year.



"The asbestos liability issue has been getting more and more attention
and remains a large question mark for them," Rodgers said.



Merrill Lynch's Sroka agreed, even though USG is "no where near the
seriousness of Armstrong and Owens-Corning."



In a 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Dec. 27,
USG said it could face "significant" liability costs for asbestos
litigation. USG also believes by year-end it will be able to estimate
the company's asbestos liability over the next few years for United
States Gypsum Co., its largest business unit.



In the same filing, USG said new personal injury cases against U.S.
Gypsum were filed at roughly the same monthly rate in October and
November as during the third quarter, when 15,300 cases were filed.



BB&T Capital Markets' Kasprzak is among analysts who said they hope a
Republican presidential administration will move toward a settlement of
companies' asbestos liability.



Masco Corp. Expectations Cut


After meeting reduced third-quarter expectations, Masco Corp. (MAS)
said in November it would likely continue to be hurt in the fourth
quarter by "softening" of orders in North America and Europe, high
energy costs and other factors.



Ivy Zellman, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, said in a
recent note that the Taylor, Mich., home-improvement products company
has also been incurring $5 million a month in costs associated with its
acquisition of cabinet maker Mill's Pride LLP and the relocation of
Masco's Weiser Lock plant to Mexico.



Zellman shares analysts' consensus estimate of 35 cents a share for
the quarter. Masco earned 40 cents in the year-ago quarter.



Analysts expect Stanley Works (SWK), a New Britain, Conn., maker of
handtools, hardware and equipment, to be one of the few building
products companies to post a positive year-over-year comparison for the
quarter. The consensus of analysts expect Stanley Works to earn 54 cents
a share, compared with 48 cents in the year-ago period.



Rodgers said Stanley Works is "largely a turnaround story" in that it
has been meeting earnings expectations in recent quarters, mainly by
boosting their gross margins through cost-cutting. He expects the
company to earn 55 cents.



Citing the company's downsizing efforts and increased outsourcing,
Zellman forecasts earnings of 56 cents a share.



Rate Cuts



Merrill Lynch's Sroka said the stock prices of many building products
companies rose in December in spite of lowered earnings expectations
because investors were anticipating the Federal Reserve to cut interest
rates, fueling housing and refinancing activity.



Mortgage rates are already low, with 30-year and 15-year rates for the
week ending Jan. 5 at their lowest levels since May 1999, at 7.07% and
6.74%, respectively, according to Freddie Mac.



Masco, with a market capitalization of $10.96 billion, is typically a
big beneficiary of money inflows into the sector, he said. In recent
weeks, First Union Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs and A.G. Edwards, all
have upgraded Masco.



But Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder's Allen took the opposite approach,
downgrading Masco on Jan. 2, saying its recent price advance to $25.69
ignored probable earnings difficulties ahead.



"While we believe the company's fundamentals will eventually be
positively affected by the widely assumed short-term rate reductions
during the first quarter of 2001, we think there are some more
near-terms earnings difficulties to wade through first," Allen said in
the note.



The increasing fear of unemployment will negatively affect new orders
and home sales, she said.



Rodgers also cited rising unemployment as one reason why he expects
the housing market to be "slightly off" in the first part of 2001.



Most analysts said they aren't expecting any significant changes the
outlook for building products companies anytime soon, although lower
crude oil prices and a strengthening euro are positive indications.



"My gut feeling is that we are pretty close to the bottom from a
demand standpoint and that demand will start to pick up in the second
half of the year," said First Union Securities analyst Rob Marshall.



-By Jolyn Okimoto, Dow Jones Newswires, 650-496-1367;
jolyn.okimoto@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010711dx1600238
?
 

 RESEARCH ALERT-USBancorp cuts Motorola estimates. 

137 words
5 January 2001
13:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 5 (Reuters) - U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray on Friday said it had reduced its earnings and revenue estimates for Motorola Inc. following the wireless communications equipment maker's profit warning last month. 

 In a research note, analyst Samuel May said he had cut his fourth-quarter 2000 earnings per share estimate to 15 cents from 27 cents and his fiscal 2001 estimate to 70 cents from $1.18. 

 May also said he had cut his fourth-quarter revenue estimate to $10 billion from $10.4 billion and his fiscal 2001 estimate to $38.7 billion from $43.7 billion. 

 Motorola shares closed Thursday at $23-1/16 on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock has a 52-week range of $15-13/16 to $61-1/2. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1505sbr
?
 

 FFBN High Yield Weekly News Impact -2: Period Ending 1/5 

1,262 words
5 January 2001
17:17
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


ISSUER: HIGH YIELD INFORMATION
SYMBOL: X.HYI
NOTEWORTHY



Doral Financial Corp. (DORL) registered to sell up to $250 million of debt
securities, preferred stock and common stock, according to a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The company intends to use the net
proceeds from the sale of the securities for general corporate purposes,
including funding its mortgage banking activities, making capital
contributions or extensions of credit to its existing and future banking and
non-banking subsidiaries, funding possible acquisitions and repayment of
debt, the filing said. Doral Financial, however, said it currently doesn't
have any plans to use the proceeds from any offering for an acquisition.
Details of the securities will be provided in a prospectus. Bankers Trust Co.
will be the trustee under the indentures, the filing said. -- 12/29
Read-Rite Corp. (RDRT) plans to spend between $90 million and $100 million on
capital expenditures in fiscal 2001, ending Sept. 30, according to the
company's annual report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The budget excludes capital requirements for its new subsidiary Scion
Photonics. At Sept. 30, 2000, Read-Rite had total commitments of $50 million
for construction or purchase of capital equipment, the filing said. The
company spent about $93.6 million on capital projects in fiscal 2000 and $101
million in fiscal 1999. -- 12/29
AMF Bowling Inc. (AWBW) subsidiary AMF Bowling Worldwide Inc. paid $3 million
of the $14.7 million in interest due on its bank debt on Dec. 29, 2000,
according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
remainder of the interest payment will be paid weekly during the first
quarter of 2001, the filing said. As reported, the company didn't make a
scheduled principal payment on its bank debt of $12.8 million which was also
due Dec. 29, 2000. Also, the company said it has decided not to request any
modifications on its  credit agreement or an extension on its current waiver
which expired Dec. 31, 2000. The company also said in the filing that it's
currently in default under the indentures for its bonds and that beginning in
2001 it will be in default of its credit agreement and will operate without
available capacity to borrow. -- 1/2
Triarc Cos. (TRY) reported revenue of subsidiary Arby's Inc. for the eleven
months ended Nov. 26, 2000, of about $79.3 million, according to a Regulation
FD disclosure statement released by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Arby's reported an operating profit of about $45.6 million, income
before income taxes of about $45.7 million and net income of about $27.2
million during the eleven-month period, the filing said. Arby's had furnished
the unaudited information in a Uniform Franchise Offering Circular in
California, the filing said. Triarc said it was providing the information to
comply with fair disclosure provisions set by the SEC. -- 1/3
Travis Street Partners LLC said ICO Inc. (ICOC) was wrong to reject its
$2.85-per-share offer to acquire the company and noted a "startling failure"
of its management, according to a proxy filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. "We were astounded when ICO's board summarily rejected
our all-cash offer at $2.85, a substantial premium to market," Travis Street
Manager Timothy Gollin wrote in a letter dated Jan. 3 and addressed to some
of ICO's major shareholders. "Since current management took control five
years ago, shareholders and bondholders alike have witnessed an 80% reduction
in tangible net worth per share and nearly an 80% reduction in market value
of the company's common stock." The letter reiterated that a proxy battle
would be both time-cosuming and expensive. "ICO can ill afford to waste money
on an extended battle which will only distract this board from what should be
its primary mission: maximizing shareholder value." The letter reiterated
Travis' belief that the company's value can best be realized through selling
the company and said it welcomes continuing dialogue with ICO to maximize
shareholder value through a transaction. "A management focused on shareholder
value, rather than self-entrenchment, would not have been so cavalier in
dismissing an offer which provided such a large premium to shareholders," the
letter said. As reported Dec. 29, 2000, Travis Street Partners offered to
acquire ICO for $2.85 a share, a 82% premium to the closing market price on
the day before  Travis Street's offer. ICO rejected the offer, citing
problems with the "process" suggested by TSP.  However, according to the
filing, ICO's board didn't address the financial merits of the proposal.
Travis Street also nominated a group of directors for ICO's next annual
meeting and expressed interest in acquiring its oilfield services business
and its plastics business. -- 1/4
Security Capital Group Inc. (SCZ) filed to offer up to $200 million of
medium-term notes, according to a prospectus supplement filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Security Capital said it would provide
terms of the notes in a pricing supplement that would be filed at the time of
any offering. In its $1 billion shelf registration filed in October 1998,
Security Capital said it would use proceeds from securities offerings for the
allocation of capital to new businesses, for the repayment of debt and for
general corporate purposes. Agents for the offering are J.P. Morgan & Co.,
Banc of America Securities LLC, Chase Securities Inc., Deutsche Banc Alex.
Brown, First Union Securities Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. -- 1/4
Aames Financial Corp. (AAM) Chief Financial Officer Jim Huston said the
company hasn't heard anything further from the New York Stock Exchange about
possible delisting proceedings after the company received a warning letter in
September concerning its low stock price. As reported, the home-equity lender
said that the NYSE gave it until Dec. 29, 2000, to raise its average stock
price above $1 a share or face possible suspension and delisting. On Sept.
13, 2000, the day following the receipt of the NYSE warning, the company's
stock price jumped 33% to more than $3 a share on heavy volume. However, in
early December it was trading again below the $1 threshold. Thursday
afternoon, its stock was quoted at $1 a share. According to NYSE listing
criteria, a company would be considered a candidate for delisting if the
average closing price of its security is less than $1 for a consecutive
30-trading-day period. Huston told Federal Filings Business News Wednesday
that it was "unclear" as to whether Aames Financial violated the 30-day
average closing price requirement. "It depends upon how it's calculated,"
Huston said. "They don't have a documented way in which they do it and it all
depends upon who you talk to." A spokeswoman from the NYSE said the exchange
would issue a press
release if and when delisting proceedings begin. -- 1/4
Allbritton Communications Co. (X.ALL) expects capital expenditures for fiscal
2001 ending Sept. 30, to be roughly $6 million, the company reported in a
Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Fiscal 2001
capital expenditures are primarily for the acquisition of technical equipment
and vehicles to support operations. Allbritton plans to finance its capital
expenditures with cash flows generated by operating activities and a $7
million lease credit facility, which is renewable annually. In fiscal 2000,
the company had capital expenditures totaling about $5 million. -- 1/4



12:17


Document ff00000020010711dx15005bn
?
 

 Autonomy Pleases Mkt, But 2001 Seen Key For IT Outlook 

 By Elena Berton 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
675 words
5 January 2001
16:16
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)- Shares in U.K. software developer Autonomy Corp. PLC (AUTN) may have rallied Friday after a reassuring trading statement but doubts remain about its prospects as the outlook for IT spend deteriorates. 

 The company's update followed a sharply declining share price, which prompted management to address the market about its performance during the last quarter of 2000. But analysts reckon the first quarter of 2001 will be the real test for Autonomy and other software support companies to prove their resilience during the looming cutbacks in IT spend. 

 "They aren't growing any faster than analysts are forecasting they are going to grow," said Derek Brown, a senior analyst at Robertson Stephens. 

 Autonomy, which provides automating processes to blue-chip customers, said that it hadn't experienced any slowdown in overall revenue growth during the fourth quarter of 2001. 

 Shares climbed after the announcement, and at 1605 GMT Autonomy was the day's biggest riser, up 17.6%, at 1,541 pence. 

 Autonomy, which listed on Easdaq in 1998 and Nasdaq in May 2000, made its London Stock Exchange debut on Oct. 30, 2000 at 3,364 pence. After reaching a high of 4,100 pence in early November, shares closed at an all-time low of 1,310 pence Thursday. 

 "Autonomy's technology is not necessarily a must-have, mission-critical piece of software. With the demise of the dotcoms we may have seen some shifting in demand in the negative way for this company and others," said Brown. 

 His view is shared by analysts at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, who have downgraded a number of smaller software companies on concerns of slowing IT spending. 

 SurfControl PLC (U.SRF), which supplies Internet filtering software, Knowledge Support Systems PLC (U.KLS) and Microgen PLC (U.MCG) have been cut to hold from buy for a mixture of valuation, risk exposure and short-term trading reasons. 

 However, Gilbert Eliott analyst Richard Lucas reckons that not all software companies are in the same position, adding that Autonomy's trading statement shows that there are still key markets despite fears of deteriorating IT spend. 

 "There may be a slowdown overall, but in certain areas the market is still growing rapidly," he said. 

 Mike Lynch, Autonomy's Chief Executive Officer, claims that Autonomy has the type of product that will see it through lean times. 

 "Autonomy's software is about automation, so customers are actually reducing head count," he told Dow Jones Newswires, "and during times when belts are tightened it's something that tends to take off rather than slow down." 

 Darren Lauber, an analyst at WestLB Panmure, agrees that Autonomy's software will prove its resilience in recessionary conditions. 

 "If we assume that the next 12 months will be tough, the large companies which are Autonomy's main clients would be looking for ways to create efficiencies to protect margins. In that context Autonomy looks well placed," he said. 

 Still, others remain skeptical. 

 "I don't think anything changes after today's announcement," said Brown. "I don't think the company or anyone else is in a position to say what is going to happen during the first or second quarter of 2001." 

 Autonomy was one of several European software stocks, along with German software developer SAP AG (SAP), which took a hammering Tuesday after Intershop Communications AG (ISHP), a German supplier of Internet commerce software, reduced its revenue and earnings expectations for the fourth quarter of 2000. 

 Market sentiment was further dampened Thursday when U.S. software developer Inktomi Corp. (INKT) issued a profit warning for the quarter ended Dec. 31. 

 "There are concerns that Autonomy and other companies will be subject to exactly that kind of outlook," said Brown. "We really need to watch how Autonomy manages to cope with that market scenario." 

 Company Web site: http://www.autonomy.com

 -By Elena Berton, Dow Jones Newswires; 44-20-7842-9267; elena.berton@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx150030i
?
 Shares of Las Vegas-Based Casino Giant Fall on Fourth Quarter  Profit Warning 

 Judy DeHaven  
362 words
5 January 2001
Knight Ridder Tribune Business News - KRTBN
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2001 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)  

 Park Place Entertainment Corp. warned yesterday it will not turn a profit on a per-share basis for the fourth quarter, sending its shares down.  

 Harsh winter weather in Atlantic City, stiff competition in Mississippi, and larger customer wins and less play in Las Vegas were the reasons the world's largest casino company cited for missing First Call estimates of 13 cents a share.  

 The company also said it will record a one-time charge of $15 million in cash to fulfill the employment contract of the late Chief Executive Officer Arthur Goldberg, who died in October. And Park Place said the proposed, $365 million sale of the Las Vegas Hilton to investor Ed Roski is in dispute.  

 Roski has until Tuesday to close the transaction, and he missed a deadline Wednesday to extend the sale. Roski has accused Park Place of breaching its agreement, and Bear Stearns analyst Jason Ader said there also was speculation Roski was having trouble obtaining financing.  

 The news caused some analysts to downgrade the stock. Park Place shares dropped $1.94, or 16 percent, to $10.  

 "We believe investors have become increasingly cautious about the outlook for the company given the loss of Arthur Goldberg, increasingly more difficult comparisons and a more competitive outlook for many of its markets," Ader wrote in a report to investors.  

 But Tom Reeg, analyst for ABN AMRO, Inc., said the hit had less to do with Park Place management and more to do with "a lot of bad luck."  

 "Frankly, I think this is just a coincidence that all of this happened after Arthur passed away," he said. "You're not going to have a weak hold every quarter, and we certainly hope we don't have this weather every quarter.  

 "The competition in Mississippi has been difficult for over a year now, and that will continue," he said. "I just don't think you can put this on management."  

 Park Place owns, manages or has an interest in 28 casinos, including the Atlantic City Hilton, Bally's Park Place and Caesars Atlantic City.  

Document krtbn00020010711dx150082c
?
 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Linda O`Bryon 
4,360 words
5 January 2001
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 PAUL KANGAS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: Wall Street is spooked by a so-so jobs report and continuing concerns over earnings. The combination sends the Dow falling 250 points and the NASDAQ Index tumbled 159 points, more than 6 percent. Good evening. I`m Paul Kangas. 

 LINDA O`BRYON, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Linda O`Bryon. Susie Gharib is off tonight. We`ll update you with the latest on California`s continuing power crunch, including a new idea on how to bail out the state`s two largest utilities. Then, some Internet banks are finding it may pay to do business off the web, as well as on it. We`ll explain. 

 O`BRYON: Good evening everyone. Concerns about the economy took center stage for investors today and the markets took it on the chin. The economic concerns: December`s employment report and more earnings warnings. The results: the blue chips fell 250 points and the NASDAQ lost 159. Scott Gurvey details the factors that led to the slide. 

 SCOTT GURVEY, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Stocks sold off today, mainly because the employment report was not as bad as many had hoped. Some economists expected to see actual declines in the number of people working. Instead, the report showed 105,000 new jobs were added in December, just about what had been expected before the Fed cut interest rates. The unemployment rate held steady at 4 percent; some thought it would increase. There was also a higher-than-expected 0.4 percent increase in average hourly earnings. This is a sign of wage inflation that is sure to worry the Fed. And what worries the Fed worries Wall Street. It`s already expecting another rate cut when the Central Bank meets at the end of the month. 

 JAMES AWAD, PORTFOLIO STRATEGIST, AWAD ASSET MGMT.: To the extent that the economy is giving off mixed signals, that means the Fed is likely to be restrained, and the market doesn`t want the Fed to be restrained now. Investors are worried enough. They want a lot of interest rate cuts and they want them right now. 

 GURVEY: The other market worry concerns corporate earnings. Today`s jobs number showed a loss of 62,000 manufacturing jobs; that sector lost 180,000 jobs for the year. The slowdown in manufacturing leads to slower growth throughout the economy. In fact, today another dozen companies issued earnings warnings. Earnings warnings lead to lower stock prices, and lower stock prices make investors fearful. Fearful investors become reluctant consumers, and the cycle continues. 

 DAVID JONES, CHIEF ECONOMIST, AUBREY G. LANSTON & CO.: I haven`t seen anything like we saw in the last two months for the economy of 2000; it literally fell off a cliff. I think what we`ve got here is the wealth effect in reverse. And remember, we haven`t tested the negative side of the wealth effect at a time when more than 50 percent of the households hold stocks. 

 GURVEY: The concern is that the wealth effect that led to historic levels of optimism on the upside, will now lead to historic levels of pessimism on the downside. The only clear consensus is that the first half of the year will be difficult. 

 Scott Gurvey, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York. 

 KANGAS: Stocks on Wall Street opened sharply lower today as investor sentiment turned very negative for a number of reasons. The main one, as Scott just reported, the December jobs report, which was viewed by many as a double negative because they looked at the slowdown in job creation as a harbinger of a weaker economy and lower corporate profits, but felt the report wasn`t bad enough to make more near-term Fed rate cuts a sure thing. After nearly an hour of trading then, the Dow Industrial Average tumbled 217 points and the NASDAQ Index was off 100. A brief mid-morning rally attempt failed, when the financial sector sold off on rumors, quickly denied, that Bank of America (BAC) had big loan losses linked to the California power crisis and also to derivative trading. At noontime, the Dow fell back down to a post a 205 point deficit; the NASDAQ Index was down 108. The downturn worsened in afternoon trading, amid a flurry of earnings warnings from companies like Bausch & Lomb (BOL), Borders (BGP), Guidant (GDT) and Nordstrom (JWN). The Dow Jones Industrial Average then fell to a closing loss of 250.40 points, or 2.3 percent putting it at 10,662.01. In this four-day trading week, the Dow only rose once, and it fell three times; had a net overall loss of 124.84 points, or 1.2 percent for the week. The NASDAQ Index today tumbled 159.18 points, or 6.2 percent ending at 2407.65. The Composite Index moved in lockstep with the Dow, rising once and falling three times this week, for a net overall drop of just 62.87 points. 

 Here we go, we`re moving along now. We see volume today on the big board 1.4 billion shares, well down from yesterday, which was a record, incidentally. And more than twice as much down volume as up volume on the big board. 

 The Dow Transport Index down 21 2/3 points. 

 Utilities down only .11. 

 The Closing Tick slightly bullish at +352. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 down nearly 35 points. 

 The 100 off 19 1/4, or nearly so. 

 And the MidCap 400 off .15. 

 Bridge Futures Price Index up 1.33. 

 New York Stock Exchange Composite down nearly 11 1/2. 

 Almost an 8-point drop in the Value Line. 

 Russell2000 off just over 14 points. 

 And the Broadly-Based Wilshire 5000 lost 351.85, or 2.9 percent. 

 KANGAS: That jobs report was weak enough to give the bond market a bit of a lift today. And, then, of course, prices were further boosted by plenty of flight-to-quality buying, prompted by the sharp downswing in stocks. The speculation that some major banks may be hurt by their lending to cash strapped California utilities also steered investors toward bonds. 

 What`s more, an easing in oil futures helped tax free and corporate issues rise between 3/8 and 3/4 of a point. 

 While the Treasury market did very nicely, too. 

 5-year notes up 25/32. 

 Bellwether 10-year note up 28/32, bringing the yield well below 5 percent again. 

 And the 30-year bond up 26/32. 

 Finally, the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index gained just over three points. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Linda. 

 O`BRYON: Paul, more developments tonight in California`s power crisis. The state`s treasurer is proposing a new financing authority, which could issue up to $10 billion in bonds to bail out California`s two troubled utilities. Meanwhile, one of them, Southern California Edison (SCEq), was turned down by a federal judge today on a request to force regulators to set prices on wholesale electricity. And next Tuesday, Edison, PG&E Corporation (PCG) and the state`s Governor will meet in Washington with White House economic advisors and federal energy officials to discuss the power problems. 

 KANGAS: President Elect Bush has also been briefed on California`s power crisis. It`s an issue that will face the new President and his economic team. This week the President Elect named Larry Lindsey to a key economic post in the White House. 

 Darren Gersh looks at Lindsey`s track record. 

 DARREN GERSH, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Chances are, if President Elect Bush is talking about the economy, the man sitting by his side is Lawrence Lindsey. 

 PRESIDENT-ELECT GEORGE W. BUSH: I look forward to Larry`s advice and counsel. 

 GERSH: This week Bush made it official. The Harvard trained, former Fed governor will be the new President`s assistant for economic affairs. But the title does not capture the power many in Washington expect Lindsey will carry, especially on the issue he has spent much of his career studying, taxes. Susan Phillips served with Lindsey on the Federal Reserve Board. 

 SUSAN PHILLIPS, DEAN, GW UNIVERSITY BUSINESS SCHOOL: It`s not that he comes with a complete open mind as to what should be done in the tax area. He does have viewpoints. 

 GERSH: As an academic, Lindsey made his name as a careful student of the Reagan tax cuts. His work led him to develop a firm belief that when government lowers marginal tax rates, people respond by investing and growing the economy. Critics privately call Lindsey an ideologue who pushes tax cuts whether the economy needs them or not. But others who`ve worked closely with Lindsey call him smart, practical and say he`s guided by the facts. 

 PHILLIPS: I was always very impressed with his ability to take rather difficult mounds of data and even difficult economic theory and put them into very concrete, simple examples. 

 GERSH: Lindsey has also earned the title compassionate conservative. He surprised many community activists with his enthusiasm and hard work while heading up the Fed`s committee overseeing bank lending in poor neighborhoods. 

 BRUCE GOTTSCHALL, EXEC. DIR., NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSING SERVICES: He was personable with people who lived in the neighborhood as well as with the bankers and other lenders who we were, you know, walking with and was asking questions about how does this work, you know, what happens there. 

 GERSH: In recent years, Lindsey has also been a well known stock market bear. He declared a few years ago he sold his stocks so he could sleep better. Lately, analysts say Lindsey`s economic outlook has been more on the mark and his prescription of deep tax cuts is finding a much more receptive audience on Wall Street and in Washington. 

 Darren Gersh, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 KANGAS: A wild day on Wall Street making it a very wild week, even though it was just four days. But the Dow off 250 1/2 or nearly so today. The broader market definitely lower by a 17 to 13 negative margin. Yet, 187 new yearly highs, 12 new lows. 

 Citigroup (C) topped the active list, down $2, hurt by those rumors about Bank of America (BAC) being exposed to the California utilities. 

 General Electric (GE) dropped $0.75. 

 Lucent Technologies (LU) a $0.94 loss. 

 Pfizer (PFE), which was down yesterday, making it back, $0.56. The defensive issues back in vogue. 

 Nortel Networks (NT) lost $3.19. 

 J.P. Morgan Chase (JPM), weak financial group, down $3.06. 

 AT&T Liberty Media (LMGA) down $0.56. 

 Nokia (NOK) fell $1.88. 

 America Online (AOL) fell $0.89. 

 And then Bank of America (BAC) itself down $3.81 despite denying those rumors that it had exposure to the California utilities. 

 DaimlerChrysler (DCX) lost $0.80 a share. After the close, the company said it`s going to cut its vehicle production by nearly 26 percent in the first quarter. 

 Guidant (GDT) was down $3.63 after the company says its fourth quarter revenues will be below estimates and it`ll hurt earnings by $0.02 to $0.03 a share. First Union downgraded the stock. 

 3M (MMM) was the biggest point loser in the Dow. Lehman Brothers cut 2001 earnings estimates and rate it just as "neutral." The stock traded as low as $110.50. 

 Nordstrom (JWN), the big department store chain, down $1.50. The company sees fourth quarter earnings at $0.18 to $0.23. The Street was looking for $0.38. 

 Procter & Gamble (PG), the biggest point gainer in the Dow, up $2.63. As I mentioned, defensive stocks were in vogue today. 

 And Robert Half International (RHI) in the job placement business down $3.13. The Robert Baird Brokerage downgraded it from "strong buy" to just a "market performer." 

 Circuit City Stores (CC) one of the best percentage gainers, up $2.06. The December same store sales were about the same as last year, but they actually were up seven percent if you exclude appliances, which the company dropped in the third quarter. 

 IMS Health (RX) up $2.63. Gruntal & Company made positive comments about the stock, and FAA FAC Securities repeated a "strong buy" on the stock. 

 InterTAN (ITN) the big percentage loser, down $2.44. This company sells RadioShack (RSH) products in Canada and it`s predicting lower than expected second quarter earnings of only $0.32 to $0.35. The Street was expecting $0.47. 

 MasTec (MTZ) down $4.19. the Friedman, Billings Ramsey Brokerage downgraded it from "buy" to just a "market performer." 

 Applera Applied Biosystems (ABI) losing $11.94. It traded as low as $64. A California judge ruled the company`s dial labeling products infringed on a patent held by Nycomed. 

 And MONY Group (MNY) down $6.75. This company sees a $0.10 per share shortfall from its own $0.51 earnings projection for the fourth quarter. 

 NASDAQ trading, a loss of 159.18 today. Volume well down from yesterday`s pace, about 14 stocks up for every 24 lower. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) topped the active list, losing $5.25. There was some speculation today the company may issue a profit warning, but nothing out yet. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) up $0.69, bucking the overall trend. 

 Juniper Networks (JNPR) lost $15.50. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) down $5.75. 

 Nearly a $10 drop in Applied Micro Circuits (AMCC). 

 Intel (INTC) lost $1.73. 

 Sun Micro (SUNW) off exactly $3. 

 QUALCOMM (QCOM) a drop of $5.88. 

 SDL (SDLI) lost $18.88. 

 And Oracle (ORCL), 10th in volume, down $2.44. 

 Lowrance Electronics (LEIX) up $4.84. The company will be acquired by Cobra Electronics (COBR) for $18 -- or $8.25 a share in cash. 

 And Brooktrout (BRKT), a maker of telecom equipment, had its stock gutted for a 4 point loss and then some. The company scaled down its fourth quarter earnings $0.03 to $0.05. The Street was looking for $0.31. 

 CV Therapeutics (CVTX) down $21.25. The company`s testing for its angina drug has been delayed until mid-2002. 

 The American Exchange Index down 5.64. For the week it dropped 33.38 points or 3.7 percent. 

 Intermagnetics General (IMG) gaining $1.50. That`s what it gained yesterday when it reported better than expected second quarter earnings. 

 And then Rica Foods (RCF) was down $1.06. The company couldn`t account for that loss. Good percentage, though. 

 Finally, the Index Shares, of course, all on the down side, as you might expect. 

 And that`s the Wall Street Wrap up. Linda? 

 O`BRYON: Well, Paul, among the dot.coms facing problems these days are Internet banks. Web banks are fighting an uphill battle for profitability. 

 But as Jeff Yastine explains, they`re trying to find new ways to do business. 

 JEFF YASTINE, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: With a slowing economy, times have been tough for banks in general, but they`ve been even tougher if the bank is doing business solely on the Internet. Take, for instance, Net.B@nk (NTBK). The firm has acquired hundreds of thousands of depositors and is profitable, yet the stock has plummeted, falling from a high of nearly $80 to under $10 in less than two years. To date, there are more than a dozen Internet only banks doing business, but some industry watchers have real doubts about the group`s prospects. 

 KEN THOMAS, LECTURER IN FINANCE, THE WHARTON SCHOOL: Studies by the regulators themselves, who actually chartered these net banks, have shown that the promise of the lower operating costs, the profitability, they`re just not coming into play. They`re not bringing in the customers, they`re not getting the customer relationships we expected. So, from what we see now, its not very optimistic. 

 YASTINE: Not everyone agrees with that assessment, but even so, some Internet banks are widening their view beyond cyberspace. Massachusetts- based directbanking.com has opened customer centers. E*TRADE (EGRP) Bank has an office in Manhattan. And Florida-based VirtualBank, an Internet bank started last year, says it, too, will open offices in select U.S. cities. 

 RORY BROWN, CHMN. & CEO, VIRTUALBANK: You`ll see us opening offices in the coming two years in where we feel are key locations, you know, cities that have a high concentration of that technology literate, you know, professional base. So, you know, cities like Seattle, like San Francisco, you know, like the Washington, D.C. corridor. 

 YASTINE: Net.B@nk say opening offices can better serve customers, but some analysts maintain it is a tacit acknowledgment that despite the Internet`s promise, operating solely online is a limiting strategy. 

 PAUL JAMIESON, ANALYST, GOMEZ ADVISORS: The mainstream banking customer still believes that banking involves some sort of physical presence. Given that case, the idea of an Internet only bank will appeal to such a limited percent of the population that it will be a niche strategy. It can be profitable. It can be, it will certainly grow over time. 

 YASTINE: Analysts say Internet only banks do have better prospects than most other dot.com businesses, if only because a branch network gives them a way to evolve their business plans. Also, with the Fed now lowering interest rates, that should give Web banks more breathing room as well. 

 Jeff Yastine, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Miami. 

 KANGAS: Monday, great expectations for the incoming Bush administration. We begin a special series of reports. 

 O`BRYON: President Clinton today announced broad new rules to protect the nation`s forests. The plan puts 58 million acres, or almost one third of the country`s national forests, out of the reach of timber companies and developers. It also bans the building of new roads and puts strict limits on logging. 

 WILLIAM J. CLINTON, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: From the Appalachian Mountains to the Sierra Nevada, forest land in 39 states will be preserved in all its splendor, off limits to road building and logging that would destroy its timeless beauty. 

 O`BRYON: But it is unclear how long the new regulations will last. A spokesman for President Elect Bush wouldn`t comment on the forest protection plan directly, but he says the Bush team will review all the new rules. 

 Earnings season gets underway in earnest next week. We`ll see reports from Motorola (MOT), Yahoo! (YHOO) and Dow component ALCOA (AA), among others. Upcoming guests include Friday`s market monitor Ned Riley, Chief Investment Strategist at State Street Global Advisors. In the BridgeNews Watch, Monday, November housing completions; Tuesday, November wholesale trade; and on Friday, December`s Producer Price Index and retail sales numbers. 

 KANGAS: My guest market monitor this week is Frank Cochrane, the President of Investment Timing Consultants, an investment advisory firm based in Farmington Hills, Michigan. And welcome back, Frank. 

 FRANK COCHRANE, PRESIDENT, INVESTMENT TIMING CONSULTANTS: Thank you, Paul. Great to be here. Happy new year. 

 KANGAS: And the same to you. In your 20 years of watching the stock market, can you recall a time when investor sentiment has gone so abruptly from euphoria to absolute gloom? 

 COCHRANE: Well, that quickly, no. But certainly `81-`82 wasn`t kind. But I would say obviously 1987, 1990, October of 1990, the Iraq-Kuwait situation, and then in 1998, the Russian situation there. And I mean it`s done an about face so quickly. I mean we`ve gone from one extreme to the other in less than, in a heartbeat. So it`s amazing how quickly -- and obviously the Fed feels the same way. 

 KANGAS: Yeah. Well, what do you feel are the major reasons behind this sudden change and do you think the gloom is going to last a long time? 

 COCHRANE: Well, I think the interest rate hikes that we, that were built into the market finally sort of caught up. I think the fact that it`s the technology stocks especially that people really a year ago were saying would go to the moon and beyond have come back down to earth. I think those two things really have unsettled investors` minds and that`s going to be something that, you know, over the short-term I think it`s going to be hard for them to deal with. 

 KANGAS: Well, when you were last with us May 12th of 2000, you were very, very positive on the high tech titans, so to speak. 

 COCHRANE: I sure was. 

 KANGAS: The Sun Micros (SUNW), Microsoft (MSFT), Applied Materials (AMAT), Intel (INTC), Cisco (CSCO), and you had about a two month honeymoon there. They did really well. 

 COCHRANE: It was great. 

 KANGAS: And I know you invested mutual funds basically that own these stock, correct? 

 COCHRANE: That`s correct. We invest in high tech funds at this time as well as NASDAQ 100 type funds. 

 KANGAS: Well, at the end of the honeymoon did you get out or are you still with those stocks? 

 COCHRANE: Well, we rode it up into mid September -- excuse me, early September, and that was great. And then the wheels came off the bus. And we have stayed invested, and obviously our clients have suffered as a result of that. However, we remain invested, confident about the market, confident about the economy, confident about what the Fed is going to do. In fact, right now the June Fed funds rate is trading at five percent. That`s 100 basis points below where the Fed funds rate is right now. That, to me, is a key about where the interest rates are going. That coupled with the fact that economic statistics continue to be slow, will probably continue to be slow over the next few months, should cause the Fed to lower rates again. 

 KANGAS: But, of course, that also translates into poor corporate profits and the market seems to be telling they`re really going to be quite poor. 

 COCHRANE: I think the market right now has discounted so much. I mean, there is so much bad news in this market, as a year ago there was so much great news. Right now the market mentality is all news is bad news, where a year ago it was the exact opposite. 

 KANGAS: But that`s a sign of a bear market, is it not? 

 COCHRANE: Well, it may be for the short-term. Obviously, the technology stocks over the past nine months have been in a bear market. But the NYSE, the Dow, the S&P, yes, were down a bit last year, except for the NYSE, which was up one percent. It`s just basically been focused in one area and that`s been technology. Overall, the markets have been OK. 

 KANGAS: So you are staying with the high tech titans, the Sun Micros, the Ciscos, etc., basically through mutual funds that own them? 

 COCHRANE: That`s correct. I mean I would buy the semiconductor group here. I would buy stocks like Motorola, Microsoft, Intel. I mean these stocks, to me, are -- granted, there still may be a slight valuation issue. However, they are cheap and I don`t think they`re going to get that much cheaper. I think the NASDAQ may be on the downside another five or 10 percent. However, between now and say the next six months, I think up to 3500 or so. So that`s a 40 to 50 percent increase. 

 KANGAS: I will give you credit, though. Last time you said stay away from dot.com, you just like the big companies, and that was great advice. You also liked General Electric, which is just a few points down. Are you still a buyer there? 

 COCHRANE: Yes, of course G.E. (GE) is, yes, a cornerstone of the economy, definitely. 

 KANGAS: OK. And UNUMProvident (UNM) is actually higher than it was back in May a few points. Are you staying with that? 

 COCHRANE: Yes, book value there is in the low 20s. I think that stock could potentially double from here in the next 18 months. 

 KANGAS: You liked G.M. in the low 80s. It went to 94 and now it`s back in the low 50s. What do you think? 

 COCHRANE: The autos I like here at this level, too. The multiples are reasonable. 

 KANGAS: So you are not giving up on this market at all, like a lot of people obviously did today? 

 COCHRANE: Not at all. I think the greatest ally we have now is the Fed. Maybe that reason has become a bit too convenient. However, I think that that will translate into much lower rates over the course of the next year. 

 KANGAS: All right. It`s good to hear those bullish comments, Frank. Thanks very much for being with us again. 

 COCHRANE: Great, Paul. Thank you very much. 

 KANGAS: My guest, Frank Cochrane, President of Investment Timing Consultants. 

 O`BRYON: Recapping today`s market action, the Dow fell 250 points and the NASDAQ slid 159. 

 And please be sure to join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com. 

 And that wraps up NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Friday, January 5th. I`m Linda O`Bryon. Have a great weekend, everyone. And the same to you, Paul. 

 KANGAS: And you, too, Linda. I`m Paul Kangas, wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010712dx150005p
?
 

 US retailers see cold December sales. 

281 words
5 January 2001
Channelnewsasia
CNEWAS
English
(c) 2001 MediaCorp News Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved

 A slowing US economy and severe winter storms in December dampened holiday same-store sales growth for American retailers. 

 Many companies are now warning that they would not meet profit forecasts. 

 In the latest sign of an economic cooling, weak sales hit all retail segments. 

 And this came just one day after the US central bank made a surprise interest rates cut amid growing concern about falling consumer confidence. 

 According to a Salomon Smith Barney index of data, December same-store sales went up half a percent which matches the smallest increase since March 1995. 

 In December of 1999, same-store sales were up 6.2 percent, powered by spending to prepare for the year 2000. 

 This time, the holiday data finished off a year of lacklustre sales which first showed signs of slowing in May. 

 Even the latest rate cut is not expected to immediately translate into higher sales and profits as lower interest rates on credit cards and home mortgages need time to filter down to consumers. 

 December sales were also affected by ice and snow storms that made many stay home instead of heading to stores and malls in the South, Midwest and Northeast of US. 

 These shortfalls in sales are significant because November and December retail typically account for about 25 percent of a company's annual sales. 

 Retailers that issued earnings warnings included discounters Ross Stores and Dollar Tree Stores, casual apparel retailer Gap, women's apparel seller AnnTaylor Stores and upscale jeweller Tiffany & Company. 

 No retailer was immune to the decline, not even discount giants like Wal-Mart Stores and Target, which both reported lower than expected sales. 

Document cnewas0020010710dx1500180
?
 

 TECH SPRINT FAILS TO REVIVE AUTONOMY 

 DAVID SHAND 
562 words
5 January 2001
The Express
THEEXP
001
English
 Copyright (C) 2001 The Express; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 FALLEN software giant Autonomy missed out on the technology revival sparked by the US Federal Reserve's surprise interest rate cut as early optimism gave way to deepening concerns over trading prospects. 

 After losing more than half its value from the November flotation price of 3276p, Autonomy shares initially shot up more than 200p before profit-takers moved out to leave them 96p lower at 1310p. Whispers of an imminent share placing added pressure after the company's slide on the back of an earnings warning from German internet software provider Intershop. Japanese bank Nomura, a previous supporter of the company, is still a holder of the stock but is cautious because of fears of cuts in non-essential IT spending by companies. 

 technology shares were generally on the up as the techMARK 100 index climbed 115.2 points to 2459.87. 

 There was considerable weight behind the 145.7-point rally in the Footsie 100 Index to 6185.6 with about 2.5billion shares changing hands. More than half a billion changed hands in Vodafone,which rang up a 14p recovery to 239p as the telecoms heavyweight announced record customer growth to help offset ongoing stock overhang concerns. But it was outshone by sector rivals Colt Telecom, up 235p to 1525p, Energis, 55p higher at 480p, and Cable and Wireless, up 79dp to 949p. Long-time bid favourite, cable operator Telewest, up 6bp to 107p, was one of the most active with nearly 36million shares traded. 

 Elsewhere in the new economy Sage Group soared 33p to 300p, Misys firmed 68dp to 623dp, CMG added 73p to 810p and ARM Holdings closed 46p higher at 502p. 

 Two of the biggest casualties of the high-tech sell-off, fibre-optic group Bookham Technology and internet security firm Baltimore Technologies, also enjoyed strong recoveries to close up 104p to 932p and 35dp to 320dp respectively. 

 Mining stock investors also struck it richer as Rio Tinto rose 102p to 1232p and Billiton firmed 21p to 275p. 

 British American Tobacco and Imperial Tobacco felt the backlash of a revived appetite for the new economy and tumbled 46p to 480p and 32p to 688p respectively. 

 Other defensive plays in the pharmaceuticals sector were also placed on the back foot, with GlaxoSmithKline retreating 121p to 1736p and AstraZeneca down 150p to 3190p. But Shire Pharmaceuticals was given a 31p shot in the arm to 1056p after the European Commission granted its Anagrelide blood disease treatment 10-year exclusive rights in Europe. 

 Old-economy stalwarts saw some of their recent market progress checked. Sainsbury's checked out 11dp lower at 380p and high-flying Tesco was marked down 17p to 257p. Reckitt Benckiser slumped 46dp to 864dp while power giants ScottishPower and Scottish and Southern Energy were switched off 24p to 490p and 20p to 595p. 

 Automotive and defence group GKN accelerated after a buy recommendation from Commerzbank. Engineering group IMI powered ahead yesterday on boardroom changes. The shares closed 27p higher at 260p after it announced that Martin Lamb, 40, now in charge of its drinks dispensing business, will replace Gary Allen as chief executive. Allen becomes chairman when Sir Eric Pountain retires at the group's annual meeting in May. Deputy chief executive Nick Paul will retire from the board at the end of this month. 

 *** BRS DOCUMENT BOUNDARY *** 

Document theexp0020010711dx1500193
?
 Fund Ratings-The fund is managed by OrbiMed Advisors, which consists of a team... 

984 words
5 January 2001
Money Management
MONMAN
English
(c) 2001 Money Management

 Eaton Vance Worldwide Health Sciences Fund: FP Rating: AA 

 The fund is managed by OrbiMed Advisors, which consists of a team of 12 analysts and eight support staff who bring a combination of scientific and financial expertise to the management of the fund. The aim of the fund is to provide investors with exposure to a global, diversified portfolio of health sciences companies. Performance to date has been outstanding, displaying average annual returns of more than 20 per cent. The fund manager remains extremely positive on the outlook of the sector due to socio-economical changes, such as ageing populations and increasing private and public expenditure, which benefits the sector. The portfolio is a combination of low-risk profitable companies and high-risk emerging companies, in which the riskier investments have smaller weightings than low-risk companies. The global mix of emerging and established companies guarantees high returns while limiting risk. OrbiMeds approach in selecting companies before they become profitable might seem risky at first, but identifying investment opportunities when stocks are cheap but offer potential gains is essential to a return-maximising approach to investing. 

 Dresdner RCM North American Fund: FP Rating: AAA 

 Manager Seth Reicher, expects a soft landing for the US economy, especially following Fed Chairman Alan Greenspans address in early December, which offered the prospect of lower interest rates should growth slow excessively. The management team is aware that the potential for a hard landing exists, mainly a result of the amount of credit that has been built up by companies and individuals. He believes that investors expectations of company earnings have become more realistic, which is reflected in the rise of Intels share price despite a profit warning. The investment process emphasises bottom-up stockpicking, with a strong bias towards stocks with superior secular earnings growth resulting from volume growth and margin expansion. Investment themes from a top-down perspective will be followed when the manager has identified areas of strong growth. Undervalued companies are identified by the in-house research process that combines a top-down strategic risk controlled model with bottom-up stock selection. The quality of the selected stocks is the main driver of sector weightings, regardless of the weightings in the benchmark. Faith in the selection process is reflected in expected returns for 2000 of about 15 per cent compared with an expected return of below 10 per cent for the S&P. Currently, the fund is overweight in healthcare with strong beliefs in human gene infrastructure. It is underweight in financials and is avoiding companies with exposure to the credit markets. 

 Threadneedle European Select Growth Fund: FP Rating: AA 

 As with most European funds, performance last year was moderate because European markets were badly hit by the growth gap between Europe and the US. Prospects for the coming year are brighter as the growth gap is decreasing and offering potential for increasing rewards. Manager of the fund, Darrell ODea, selects stocks on the basis on fundamental research. He makes use of qualitative and quantitative analysis and looks to invest in high-quality companies with a focus on valuation. The investment process emphasises sector analysis as the driving force behind portfolio construction. The combination of sector analysis and quality stockpicking enables the manager to capitalise on opportunities across all sectors through a mixture of growth and value. Risk is monitored weekly through fund analysis and sector review. Before adding a new position to the portfolio, the manager will assess how the stock will alter the risk profile of the fund. Barra analysis will also be implemented. The manager is not constrained by any restrictions on benchmark sector weightings. At present, the fund has increased its exposure to the technology sector to a more neutral position, favouring hardware stocks. Financials are marginally underweight as the manager has disposed of a number of stocks that had delivered substantial profits. His outlook for 2001 is moderately positive. However, he points out that signals suggest the US will have a harder than expected landing, which would naturally also affect the portfolio of European funds. Mr ODea and his team therefore remain cautious and have adopted a more neutral stance for the fund. 

 Henderson Horizon Pacific Fund: FP Rating: AA 

 Kirsteen Morrison has enjoyed a strong performance with the fund last year, despite difficult market conditions. This performance was the result of an investment style that follows a simple top-down approach with appropriate risk controls. The initial country allocation is chosen through weekly consideration of global macroeconomic inputs, liquidity and interest rates, currency valuation and outlook, economic indicators, political and cultural factors and fair value. Sector and theme selections are then considered on the basis of the maturity of the economy, economic cycle, regional sector valuations and identified long-term growth areas. About 70 per cent of the portfolio is structured to reflect top-down conclusions and this will generally be in the form of blue chip plays. The remaining 30 per cent of assets will include individual stock specific ideas. The outlook for the Pacific markets is not very bright. Koreas economy is clearly showing signs of slowing and will be subject to further weakness from a global slowdown. The non-performing loan situation in Korea is therefore expected to deteriorate before it improves. The smaller ASEAN markets are largely avoided on the basis of political risk and the sheer lack of stockpicking opportunities. The China story remains one of the most powerful for the region and Hong Kong has clearly been the beneficiary of a flight to quality. The sheer scale of the retrenchment in the region suggests opportunities for the active stockpicker who is likely to outperform investors adopting a more top-down approach. A more stable global market environment is felt to be a requisite for the region to progress. 

Document monman0020010802dx1500068
?
 

Abreast of the Market
 Some Sectors Continue to Rise; UAL and J.P. Morgan Chase Gain   

 By Karen Talley   
Dow Jones Newswires
1,100 words
5 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal
J
C2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 NEW YORK -- Financial, leisure and transportation stocks continued to enjoy the bounty of the Federal Reserve's decision to cut interest rates.   

 But technology didn't see the same follow-through, raising questions about which way the market will go after Wednesday's record gains.   

 "Today was a natural response to the move that took place Wednesday, which was a little excessive," said Charles Johnson, head of equity trading at Blaylock & Partners. "It's a bit early to say everything is in place for a sustained move to the upside."   

 In a potentially encouraging sign for some market followers, transportation shares soared for the second straight day. Add to that the Dow Jones Industrial Average's 300-point increase Wednesday and some analysts were talking about the "Dow theory," which holds that industrials and transports must hit highs for the overall market to mount a sustainable advance.   

 Among transportation stocks, UAL gained $2.81 to $43.81, while AMR was up 1.44 to 43.06 and FedEx advanced 3.20 to 44.26.   

 In another market undercurrent, utility stocks fell sharply, with Calpine shedding 6 to 32.50, PPL losing 5 to 36 and UtiliCorp dropping 3.19 to 26.19. The utility sector, one of last year's stellar performers, was hit by profit-taking and growing concern over how deregulation -- with debate now centered in California -- may affect corporate profits.   

 The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 49.86 points, or 1.91%, to 2566.83. That follows Wednesday's record gain of 324.82 points, or 14.7%.   

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average shed 33.34, or 0.3%, to 10912.41, after adding 299.60 points on Wednesday.   

 Volume on the New York Stock Exchange hit 2.1 billion shares, smashing Wednesday's record of 1.8 billion.   

 Among financials, J.P. Morgan Chase added 1.38 to 52 and Citigroup rose 75 cents to 55.69. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter jumped 5 to 88.69 after Merrill Lynch upgraded its intermediate-term rating to buy from accumulate.   

 In the leisure sector, hoteliers had a solid day. Marriott International added 1.06 to 45.75, Starwood Hotels was up 1.13 to 38.69 and Hilton Hotels gained 38 cents to 11.56.   

 Investors also remained pretty comfortable with casinos, engaging in just a bit of profit-taking. Harrah's Entertainment shed 63 cents to 26.31, after a 1.50 advance Wednesday. Mandalay Resort Group fell 1.44 to 21, after a 1.50 increase the day before. MGM Mirage dropped 38 cents to 28.69 after moving up 1.94.   

 Analysts said they were keeping a close eye on stocks that had significant advances Wednesday, to see whether investors took short-term profits or were willing to make a longer commitment that could help the market firm its footing. The results were mixed.   

 Among networkers, Juniper slumped 6.69 to 125.31, Network Appliance added 2.38 to 66.38 and Sycamore fell 19 cents to 39, after all surged on the Nasdaq Stock Market Wednesday.   

 Fiber-optic makers gave up some ground. SDL lost 21.50 to 47.88 after a 53.69 jump Wednesday and JDS Uniphase lost 5.75 to 47.88 after adding 14.38, both on Nasdaq. Corning was up for most of the day, but sputtered at the end, dropping 25 cents to 55.25. The stock gained 8.13 Wednesday.   

 Among semiconductor shares, Applied Micro Circuits shed 1.38 to 73.38 on Nasdaq, after a gain of 11 Wednesday. Linear Technology fell 2.38 to 51.06 on Nasdaq, after rising 8.06. Analog Devices dropped 2.38 to 52.13 after a 7.50 jump.   

 Forest- and paper-product suppliers held their gains, with International Paper advancing 1.56 to 42.63, after a 1.63 gain Wednesday. Georgia-Pacific was up 2.13 to 33, following an 88-cent rise. Boise Cascade advanced 19 cents to 34.44, after a 1.25 advance.   

 Some sectors that failed to get on board Wednesday's rally were weaker still.   

 Colgate-Palmolive lost 4.19 to 55.92, after dropping 2.39 Wednesday. Procter & Gamble shed 2.31 to 72.31, after a 3.88 loss. Kimberly-Clark dropped 3.18 to 62.93, after a 3.09 decline.   

 Tobacco companies continued losing ground, with some analysts citing profit-taking after the group had been bid up. Philip Morris lost 1.75 to 40.50, after a 3.94 slide Wednesday. Loews dropped 2.69 to 95.50, following a 2.75 slide. RJR Tobacco Holdings shed 2.56 to 45.69 after losing 2.75 the day before.   

 Drug makers dropped again, this time perhaps influenced by Bear Stearns's downgrade of the sector to market weight from overweight. Eli Lilly lost 5.19 to 81.13, after shedding 5.19 Wednesday. Merck dropped 4.13 to 85, after a 3.88 slide.   

 Department-store retailers moved higher after the release of December sales figures that were weak, as had been expected. Kmart gained 75 cents to 6.19, Federated Department Stores rose 2.31 to 40 and Kohl's jumped 6.19 to 70.   

 Toys "R" Us advanced 4.13 to 22.63 after reporting a strong holiday sales period. Among toy makers, Mattel gained 1.06 to 15.50 and Hasbro added 69 cents to 11.56.   

 Health-care stocks were hurt by a shift away from some defensive stocks. Tenet Healthcare dropped 2.44 to 39 and Oxford Health Plans shed 4.61 to 31.02 on Nasdaq.   

 Similarly, beverage stocks dropped again, with Anheuser-Busch losing 2.75 to 38.50 and PepsiCo shedding 2.13 to 44.38.   

 Read-Rite added 1.47, or 33%, to 5.97 on Nasdaq after the disk-drive component maker said it will return to profitability in the first quarter due to stronger-than-expected revenue. Competitor Western Digital rose 44 cents to 3.25.   

 Software-maker Vitria Technology dove 4.03, or 50%, to 3.97 on Nasdaq after warning it will post a loss for the fourth quarter, instead of the profit Wall Street had expected.   

 Internet software provider Inktomi dropped 4.63, or 25%, to 13.88 after it said its revenue and earnings for the just-ended quarter will fall below previous expectations due to a slowdown in spending on online infrastructure. Several investment firms downgraded the stock.   

Document j000000020010711dx15000g1
?
 

 US home electronic retailers get boost from rate  cut . 

284 words
4 January 2001
20:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Jan 4 (Reuters) - The shares of home electronics retailers, including Best Buy Co Inc. , shot higher Thursday in a rally fueled by the Federal Reserve's surprise interest rate cut and relief over holiday sales figures, analysts said. 

 Best Buy shares rose about 13 percent and were up $4-5/8 at $39-1/8 in afternoon trade. The stock reached its highest level since warning of a profit shortfall on Nov. 9. 

 RadioShack Corp. shares were also up 13 percent, rising $5-5/8 to $50-1/8. Circuit City Stores shares rose 3/4 at $14-1/4. 

 "I think you're seeing the cycle rotate back into retail because of yesterday's rate cut," said Scot Ciccarelli, retail analyst with Gerard Klauer Mattison & Co. "Typically, an interest rate cut eventually makes things - whether its credit card interest or home mortgages - a little cheaper. That puts a little extra money in people's pockets." 

 Also Thursday, Best Buy reported that December same-store sales rose 3.7 percent, in line with expectations for gains of about 3 to 5 percent, although the results were down from a year ago. RadioShack said sales at its stores open a least a year rose 8 percent. 

 Investors greeted both figures with a sigh of relief because they came on a day when many other retailers came up short and warned of lower profits. 

 "I think it was a case of no bad news was good news," John Glass, retail analyst with Deutsche Banc Alex Brown. "It's not that the sales were great, but they were in line with what people were looking for." 

Document lba0000020010713dx1405q12
?
 

 BMC Software 3Q View Breathes Life Into Mainframe Stks 

 By Marcelo Prince 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
763 words
4 January 2001
19:32
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Don't accuse BMC Software Inc. (BMCS) of following the pack. 

 Last year, when the Nasdaq was afire and Internet software companies were investing darlings as their share prices and quarterly revenues soared, BMC and its peers stumbled badly issuing profit warning after profit warning as demand for mainframe computer software faded. 

 Now that many high-flying Internet software companies have seen their stocks collapse as their businesses have cooled, BMC has suddenly sprung to life. 

 Late Wednesday, the Houston software firm surprised investors by predicting it would top sales and profit expectations for its December-ended third quarter thanks to strong demand for its products. The move reverses a series of gloomy forecasts - as recently as October the company had tempered expectations for the third quarter and fiscal 2001, citing delays in purchases of its products by mainframe users. 

 The irony was not lost on Wall Street. Credit Suisse First Boston Corp. analyst Wendell Laidley welcomed the surprisingly bright outlook, writing in a research note that it reverses "a BMC-specfic trend of negative pre-announcements at the same time other software high-fliers are suddenly missing on the downside." 

 Wednesday's good news was greeted with great cheer on Wall Street. BMC's battered shares, which had slipped near five-year lows, were recently up 40.4% to $21.94. The euphoria quickly spread to other beaten-down mainframe software makers, including Computer Associates International Inc. (CA), up 22% to $26, and Compuware Corp. (CPWR), up 14.1% to $8.88. Both CA and Compuware were recently up more than 20%. 

 The entire mainframe software sector struggled for much of 2000 as customers worked through excess mainframe capacity they had purchased in anticipation of Y2K then, in the spring, shifted their technology spending to Web projects. Then,  later in the year, they postponed purchases of mainframe software as they awaited a new line of mainframe computers from International Business Machines Corp. (IBM). 

 IBM began shipping its zSeries, also known as the G7 line, in mid-December, but that news was tempered by fears corporations would cut back IT spending this year and move away from mainframes. But analysts now believe BMC's surprisingly strong third-quarter forecast resulted from an increase in capacity upgrades because of the launch of IBM's new boxes. 

 As reported, BMC said Wednesday it expects third-quarter revenue to be in the range of $375 million and $380 million, compared with analysts' estimates of from $355 million to $370 million. Earnings, excluding charges and including a one-time 2-cent gain, are expected to be between 20 cents and 22 cents a share. In October, BMC warned it expected to record a profit in the range of 15 cents to 20 cents a share, below the then-consensus estimate of 30 cents. 

 Although the now-promised upside is minimal and essentially leaves BMC where it was before lowering expectations in October, investors were heartened because many had expected another quarterly shortfall. Wednesday, BMC gave few details about the mix of third-quarter business, but a BMC spokesman said "clearly, (software) licensing revenue is higher than expected." BMC will release final third-quarter results on Jan. 18. 

 "We think this signals the end of a Y2K and IBM platform transition-driven ... drought that will result in meaningful upward revisions in mainframe software earnings and share prices," wrote John McPeake, analyst at Prudential Securities Inc., in a midday note Thursday. He upgraded his ratings on BMC, CA and Compuware saying the worst is likely behind the sector and the stocks are cheap. 

 CSFB's Laidley noted that just as BMC has suffered from a depressed mainframe hardware environment, it should benefit from more robust hardware sales or users adding mainframe capacity. If the hardware cycle is sustained for several quarters, he wrote, BMC would enjoy "meaningful earnings leverage." 

 Others, however, were less sanguine. UBS Warburg analyst Kevin Buttigieg kept his hold rating on BMC Thursday saying that while its stock was due for a bounce, it's not out of the woods yet. He wrote, "We're unsure if this is a positive turn in the fundamentals or a one-quarter wonder like last year's March quarter ..." 

 In the recent past, when one mainframe software vendor issued a negative preannouncement its peers soon followed. The question now is, will the inverse be true? 

 -By Marcelo Prince, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5244; marcelo.prince@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010711dx14000hs
?
 

Market Action
 Financial Post Investing 
 Inktomi gain evaporates after close 

 Thomas Hirschmann and Scott Adams 
Financial Post
571 words
4 January 2001
National Post
FINP
National
D02
English
 (c) National Post 2001. All Rights Reserved. 

 Inktomi Corp. (INTK/NASDAQ), up US$3 15/16 to US$18 1/2, on volume of 18.1 million shares. 

 The stock gave back its gains in after-hours trading, falling to just above US$15 a share after the company issued a profit warning. 

 The maker of Internet search and traffic management technology said its revenues for the quarter, which ended Dec. 31, would be US$80-million to US$81-million. Pro-forma earnings per diluted share would be between US1 cents and break-even, the company said. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial were calling for earnings of US3 cents a share. 

 At least two brokerages downgraded the stock on Tuesday, a day before the announcement. Banc of America also cut its target price to US$32 a share from US$120. The shares traded at US$242 1/2 at their March peak. 

 --- 

 ATI Technologies Inc. (ATY/TSE), up 85 cents to $10, on volume of 1.2 million shares. 

 The stock rose, although Andreas Hoppe, analyst at BMO Nesbitt Burns, cut his target on the graphics chips company to $9 a share from $12. He rates the stock "underperform" and said the company's outlook has darkened because of the slowdown in personal computer sales, the possibility of excess inventory in the industry and increased competition. 

 Mr. Hoppe cut his earnings estimate for fiscal 2001 to US15 cents a share, from US30 cents a share and his 2002 estimate to US50 cents a share, from US68 cents a share. Consensus for fiscal 2001 is US39 cents a share and for fiscal 2002 it is US77 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Mr. Hoppe is now calling for a break-even first quarter ended Nov. 30, while the First Call consensus in US4 cents a share. 

 --- 

 724 Solutions Inc. (SVN/TSE), up $3.15 to $29.65, on volume of 271,778 shares. 

 The stock rallied although David Beck, analyst at RBC Dominion Securities, knocked his target on the stock to US$35 from US$45. 

 Mr. Beck is worried that three of 724 Solutions' customers may delay their rollout of wireless financial services. Possible delays could come from Hanvit Bank of South Korea because of restructuring, he said. He is also concerned that BBVA Bancomer is re-evaluating 724 Solutions' technology and he is worried that Wells Fargo has delayed rollout of its service. 

 --- 

 Placer Dome Inc. (PDG/TSE), down 65 cents to $14.15, on volume of 2.7 million shares. Goldcorp (G/TSE), down 15 cents to $8.85, on volume of 106,650 shares. Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX/TSE), down $1.26 to $24.30, on volume of 1.9 million shares. 

 The stocks slid as Michael Fowler, an analyst at Research Capital Corp., made downgrades. Barrick and Goldcorp were cut to "buy" from "strong buy" while Placer Dome was taken down to "hold" from "buy." He cut his 12-month target on Goldcorp to $11 a share from $12.50, on Barrick to $19.50 from $23.16, and on Placer Dome to $11 from $11.40. 

sadams@nationalpost.com

 Chart/Graph: Bloomberg News / INKTOMI: INKT/Nasdaq: Jan. 3: US$18 1/2 +US$3 15/16, Vol.: 18,012,400: (See print copy for complete chart/graph.) 

Document finp000020010711dx14001ao
?
 

 Shares on Neuer Markt Begin The New Year With a Stagger --- Intershop Communications Issues  Profit Warning  for 2000, Plunges 70.4% --- Internet Sector Fears Slowdown in Information-Technology Spending 

 By Chris Reiter 
Dow Jones Newswires
855 words
3 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 BERLIN -- The new year got off to a bad start for the New Economy, with electronic-commerce software company Intershop Communications AG issuing a profit warning even before markets had woken up to 2001. 

 Intershop on Monday warned it wouldn't meet its 2000 earnings targets. The company blamed the shortfall on a global slowdown in information-technology spending and delays in closing sales. Both are bad signs for a sector that is reeling from a disappointing 2000. 

 Intershop's shares plunged 70.4% on Germany's Neuer Markt on the profit warning and its American depositary receipts on the Nasdaq Stock Market tumbled 69%. Other software companies came under selling pressure Tuesday, as the warning from Intershop sparked fears of similar troubles for competitors. 

 "This general slow-down (in information-technology spending) looks to be impacting even the best-of-breed companies," said Marc Geall, analyst with Schroder SalomonSmithBarney. 

 Intershop, the top European provider of e-commerce platforms, cut its fourth-quarter revenue estimate to 28 million euros from 30 million euros, well below its earlier forecast of 40 million to 50 million euros. Intershop's revised estimated net loss for 2000 stands at 37 million to 39 million euros, compared with its previous forecast of a loss of 10 million euros for the year. 

 "We are disappointed with the results for the fourth quarter of 2000. Several multimillion-dollar sales opportunities that we expected to close in late 2000 have been postponed until 2001," said Intershop Chief Financial Officer Wilfried Beeck. Most of the missed sales were in the U.S., where the company reported sales of 4 million euros, compared with expectations of 20 million euros, Mr. Beeck said. 

 Mr. Beeck told analysts the Intershop executives "see reason for corrective measures that are directly related to Intershop's internal issues." He said the company will reduce hiring and streamline operations, with the management focused on boosting sales. 

 He said the company plans to beef up its 20-strong sales force. "We need to hire more sales people in the U.S. We need to make our operations more sales-centric," Mr. Beeck said. 

 On top of the missed sales, the company is expecting to write off 5 million euros in bad debt in the fourth quarter. 

 The company expects to close some of the deals postponed from 2000 in the current quarter and is forecasting a profit for the current year. But the warning prompted analysts to downgrade the stock and it cast gloom over fellow technology stocks. 

 Intershop's shares plummeted 64% to 5.70 euros in Germany, while its ADRs sank 68% to $4.90 in New York. ABN Amro dropped its rating on the shares to reduce from buy, while Merck Finck cut its rating to market performer from outperformer. Lehman Brothers dropped its rating to neutral from buy. 

 "In this market, investors are intolerant of investing in companies that are losing money, and this announcement shows that (Intershop) will continue making losses going forward," said Dresdner Kleinwert Benson analyst Bob Liao. 

 Other Neuer Markt-listed software companies also suffered, with Brokat AG skidding 34%, Broadvision Inc. sliding 17%, and Datadesign AG falling 12%. In the U.S., software firm Oracle Corp. was down 8%, Commerce One Inc. was down 17%, Siebel Systems Inc. dropped 11% and Ariba Inc. fell 15%. 

 The technology heavy Nemax 50 Index slumped 8% to 2632. Even software heavyweight SAP AG felt the pressure, falling 9.6% to 110.6 euros. 

 "I wouldn't be surprised if further shortfalls come out (from other companies)' said Andrew Jackson, a technology-fund manager at Societe Generale Investment Management. "A lot of companies will be nervously looking at sales." 

 The concern for Intershop and other specialist software companies is that they are falling down the priority list when it comes to getting a piece of corporate IT budgets. The failure of Internet startups -- such as Letsbuyit.com NV, which filed for protection from creditors in the Netherlands on Friday -- means that traditional Old Economy companies no longer have the same urgency to improve their Internet presence. As a result, this once-eager customer base is thinning, said David Clayton, a technology analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 "The market is maturing and specialist e-commerce companies such as Intershop will face increasing competition," said Dresdner's Mr. Liao. 

 "This is a big knock to confidence, and I don't see a quick way out at the moment," Mr. Jackson of SocGen said. "It's not a good way to start off the new year." 

 Slammed by the world-wide downturn in technology stocks, the Neuer Markt has been hit by a string of high-profile flameouts. Since September, three Neuer Markt companies have filed for bankruptcy, and several others have lost more than half their market value after acknowledging they badly overestimated growth. 

 --- 

 Cecile Gutscher of wsj.com contributed to this report. 

Document wsje000020010713dx1300093
?
 

 WORLD BONDS-U.S. cooldown chills corporates. 

 By Catherine Evans 
741 words
3 January 2001
16:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Jan 3 (Reuters) - Fears that the U.S. economy may cool more quickly than forecast are starting to move dollar and euro credit spreads, with cyclical sectors such as autos set to be worst affected, analysts said on Wednesday. 

 Spreads, or risk premia, on bonds issued by U.S. auto giant Ford Motor Co , were quoted two basis points wider in euros and five wider in dollars following Tuesday's data release by the U.S. National Association of Purchasing Management. The NAPM's index of factory activity slipped to 43.7 in December, its lowest level for almost a decade. 

 The figure triggered a seven percent selloff in the Nasdaq stock index and a 1.3 percent fall in the Dow Jones Industrial Average on Tuesday. 

 Tumbling stocks also pushed other corporate bonds wider, with further adjustment expected as investors return to work following the Christmas and New Year vacation. 

 CYCLICALS POOR, EURO CORPS PREFERRED 

 "You would expect to see a reaction in cyclical sectors and certainly we have had spread widening in the auto sector, which is the most liquid of those sectors in the corporate bond market," said Neil McLeish, European corporate strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in London. 

 "Cyclical risk will be a key driver of spreads this year, and identifying where that is or is not priced into market is one of the key issues for investors." 

 MSDW has been recommending its clients underweight cyclical industries since September last year. McLeish said he remained cautious on autos but cyclicals which had suffered big selloffs last year might now offer opportunities. 

 After telecoms, autos was the worst performing sector in the euro corporate bond market during the last quarter of 2000, driven wider by fears that companies would be left with vast inventory should the U.S. economy suffer a hard landing. 

 A profit warning from DaimlerChrysler and litigation against the company, plus the Bridgstone-Firestone tyre recall, which affected Ford, also undermined sentiment. 

 Dutch bank ABN AMRO also recommended clients switch out of cyclical industries and into more defensive sectors in a research note published on Wednesday. 

 The euro-zone economy is expected to outperform the U.S. this year, which should make regional corporates a safer bet than their transatlantic cousins. Analysts warn that a downturn in the U.S. could damage corporate Europe, however, especially if the recent rally in the euro is sustained. 

 The dollar's prolonged dominance on the foreign exchange markets was cited in profit warnings by a clutch of major U.S. companies last quarter. 

 "If the U.S. slows it could impact Europe, including a strong euro hitting European industrials," said Gary Jenkins, global head of credit research at Barclays Capital in London. 

 "But looking at equity markets...there is still more event risk in the U.S., and as a huge generalisation, I'd rather own a European corporate than a U.S. one." 

 EURO SWAP SPREADS SEEN SANGUINE 

 Tuesday's NAPM figure also moved short-dated dollar swap spreads tighter by a couple of basis points, although longer-dated swaps continued to tighten as a result of demand from mortgage-backed debt holders seeking to hedge their portfolios. Technical issues aside, however, dollar swap spreads should trend wider across the curve, analysts said. 

 "The Treasury curve is still steepening, with 50 to 75 basis points (of interest rate cuts during Q1) already priced in," said Ben Bennett, credit strategist at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson in London. "There are quite a lot of fundamental reasons for the long end to widen." 

 The swap spread is used as a benchmark for corporate debt and provides a rough guide to borrowing costs over government bonds for a double-A rated issuer. U.S. swap spreads have widened to record levels in recent years, mainly because Treasury prices have rocketed as a result of the U.S. government's buyback plan. 

 The 10-year dollar swap spread was 95 basis points over Treasuries on Wednesday, with its euro counterpart at 61 over German Bunds. Euro swaps are expected to remain stable as European government bond supply is not being pared back as dramatically as Treasury supply. 

 "We don't expect any great widening in Europe...In Europe at least we are comfortable with the future direction of swap spreads, which is obviously very good news for credit," said Barclays' Jenkins. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1306whn
?
 

 Israel stocks retreat further after Nasdaq. 

468 words
3 January 2001
16:15
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TEL AVIV, Jan 3 (Reuters) - Israeli shares retreated further on Wednesday following a tumble on Nasdaq and amid concern over failing Middle East peacemaking, traders said. 

 "The market opened with strong declines of as much as 4 percent which slowly tapered off towards the end of the day...apparently because large institutions were interested in buying at these prices for the long term," said a trader at Nessuah Zannex Securities. 

 "The issues weighing on the market were the apparent retreat from peace talks, the terrible security situation and the plunge on Nasdaq yesterday," the trader said. Nasdaq lost more than 7 percent in its first day of trade in 2001. 

 Palestinian President Yasser Arafat gave conditional approval to a U.S. peace proposal aimed at ending more than three months of Israeli-Palestinian fighting and clinching a final peace agreement. However, the plan's acceptance included some reservations, a source familiar with the talks said on Wednesday. 

 Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak expressed on Tuesday doubts that the two sides would reach an agreement before U.S. President Bill Clinton leaves office on January 20. 

 Since the start of 2001, Israel's main share indices have lost close to 6 percent. 

 The blue-chip Tel Aviv 25 index ended 1.01 percent lower at 479.21 points, while the broader TA-100 index fell 1.73 percent to 460.81 points. The technology Teltech index dipped 4.8 percent. 

 Volume was a relatively heavy 416.7 million shekels compared with 391.5 million shekels on Tuesday. 

 Lead blue chip Teva Pharmaceutical Industries dragged the market lower with a 7 percent tumble to 267.10 shekels after its partner Biovail Corp said 2001 revenues would be off-target. 

 Teva has exclusive U.S. marketing rights for certain Biovail generic drugs. Teva officials said the Biovail estimates would not affect its sales forecasts, but that did not forestall the stock's decline on Nasdaq and in Tel Aviv. 

 "People are so cautious that even if there is only talk about a profit warning, it's like a profit warning," the trader said. 

 Digital voice and data company Nice Systems shed an additional 19.2 percent to 65.80 shekels after losing more than 60 percent of its value in recent days over a fourth quarter profit warning. 

 Credit Suisse First Boston said on Wednesday it cut its rating on the share to hold from buy and slashed its price target to $24 from $80. 

 Chemicals sector stocks were among the few gainers, with Israel Chemicals posting a 3 percent rise and M.A. Industries advancing 2.1 percent. 

 -Tel Aviv 100 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 100 index 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index 

 -Tel Aviv technology index 

 ($1 = 4.09 shekels). 

Document lba0000020010713dx1306w7l
?
 

 F-Secure, peers buckle as investors flee techs. 

240 words
3 January 2001
11:03
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 HELSINKI, Jan 3 (Reuters) - Shares in Finnish software security firm F-Secure and smaller peers SSH and Stonesoft slid on Wednesday amid a cross-continent tech-stock decline following the Nasdaq's seven-percent fall overnight. 

 At 1041 GMT, F-Secure was down 14.4 percent at 4.45 euros with bourse newcomer SSH Communications Security down 11.9 percent at 12.79 euros and Stonesoft falling 9.1 percent to 13 euros. 

 The HEX general index lost 6.4 percent, primarily due to heavy selling of shares in telecoms giant Nokia . 

 "It has been difficult to decide what the proper price for F-Secure is...and Nokia being pushed down this much has a direct effect on (F-Secure and other IT firms)," one broker said. 

 Analysts said the tech turmoil revived earnings fears aroused by a profit-warning from U.S. Network Associates last week, and F-Secure, which many consider a promising company with strong fundamentals, was suffering from general negative sentiment. 

 "Nothing has changed in its fundamentals after the latest result but profit-warnings from big U.S. companies have an effect," analyst Jaakko Paloheimo at Opstock said. 

 The share last year performed relatively better than several other tech companies, down 10 percent for 2000 despite climbing as high as 19.10 euros in early March. It outperformed the Dow Jones Stoxx tech index , which lost 16 percent. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1306tsy
?
 

 U.S. stocks soar on Fed cuts, Nasdaq largest gain ever. 

599 words
3 January 2001
21:35
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 3 (Reuters) - Stock market bulls shredded the harness of the U.S. economic slowdown on Wednesday as unexpected interest-rate cuts by the Federal Reserve set off a stampede that left the Nasdaq market with its largest gain since its creation in 1971. 

 Stocks shot higher immediately after the news from the Fed just before 1:15 p.m. The announcement was what Wall Street wanted - a rate reduction to kick start the flagging. 

 Amid record trading volume, the Nasdaq composite index soared 324.82 points, or 14.17 percent, to close at 2,616.56, the largest ever point and percentage gain for the technology-loaded market barometer. It was the highest close for the composite since Dec. 18. 

 Wednesday's rocket ride more than made up for Tuesday's sharp selloff, which was driven by news of the sluggish factory activity in nearly 10 years. 

 On Tuesday, the Nasdaq suffered a rout of more than 7 percent as news of a manufacturing slowdown pointed to further diminished economic activity. 

 Meanwhile on Wednesday, the Dow Jones Industrial average jumped 299.60 points, its eighth largest point rise ever, to 10,945.75. It was the Dow's highest close in nearly two months. 

 "Hallelujah! It's been a rough ride," said Christopher Conkey, chief investment officer for Evergreen Funds. 

 "It means the light is at the end of the tunnel. It does not mean that the real economy is out of the woods by any stretch of the imagination. Liquidity has been crushed, wealth has been destroyed, and the economy is slowing down very quickly," he said. 

 "The fundamental economic impact is positive, but it's not over. It's going to take a while," Conkey said. 

 The Fed cut its key funds rate by a half percentage point to 6 percent. The central bank also cut the more symbolic discount rate on Fed loans to commercial banks by a quarter percentage point to 5.75 percent. 

 An interest rate cut is bullish for stocks because it ultimately lowers companies' borrowing costs. The market was hammered last year by fears that the slowing economy will hurt corporate profits. 

 Nasdaq was lifted by a surge in the shares of heavyweights like Internet gear makers Cisco Systems Inc. and Juniper Networks, software giant Microsoft Corp, among others. Advancers on Nasdaq were beating decliners by about 3 2 to 1. 

 The Dow was lifted by high-tech components, including computing giant International Business Machines, up a whopping $9-7/8 at $94-11/16, and interest rate-sensitive financials like J.P. Morgan Chase, up $7 at $50-5/8. 

 But defensive sectors fell, including pharmaceuticals. Among the Dow components, Merck & Co. fell $3-7/8 to $89-1/8 and Johnson & Johnson shed $3-1/4 at $98-3/4, having both risen sharply last year as investors pumped money into such sectors, which are deemed as "safe havens" in times of economic uncertainty. 

 The move came four weeks ahead of the year's first meeting of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). It was the first time the Fed cut interest rates between regular FOMC meetings since the fall of 1998, when a global economic crisis threatened to seize up world financial markets. 

 The Fed had raised interest rates six times since the summer of 1999, to rein in inflation. These higher borrowing costs already have hurt corporate profit growth and contributed to a slew of companies' warning of disappointing results. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1305sxl

Search Summary

 Text	((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))
 Date	01/01/2001 to 01/31/2001
 Source	All Sources
 Author	All Authors
 Company	All Companies
 Subject	Corporate/Industrial News
 Industry	All Industries
 Region	United States
 Language	English
 Results Found	217
 Timestamp	27 March 2018 10:35

































•	  U.S. stocks soar on unexpected Fed rate cuts. 
•	 ADR REPORT-U.S. interest rates  cut , overseas firms rally.
•	  U.S. stocks in powerful rally after Fed cuts rates. 
•	  German software stocks plunge on signs of U.S. chill. 
•	  Intershop Wants More US Competitor Cooperations - Report 
•	  Intershop Pft Warning A Bad Sign For New Economy In 2001 
•	  2001: Euro stocks odyssey starts with losses in high tech sector ATTENTION - ADDS Frankfurt close /// 
•	 TEFRON'S SALES  DECLINE , CITES SOFT U.S. DEMAND -
•	  MARKET TALK: GE Proves Not Immune To Market's Woes 
•	  MARKET TALK: Short-Sellers Dream In Software Group 
•	  MARKET TALK: March S&Ps Hit Limit Down 
•	  Still Waiting for The Line To Clear 
•	  Look back to the future.(California wine industry in the past) 
•	  Israel stocks launch new year with declines. 
•	  California high-tech faces energy threat -- Rate hikes, blackouts loom on the horizon 
•	  US faces recession but Europe may see a 'golden decade'. 
•	  Beyond the basics:  How to deal with troubled loans on special purpose real estate assets with operating businesses  

 

 U.S. stocks soar on unexpected Fed rate cuts. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
634 words
3 January 2001
20:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 3 (Reuters) - Stocks rocketed in late afternoon trading on Wednesday, with the technology-heavy Nasdaq index poised for its biggest daily gain ever following an unexpected interest-rate cut by the Federal Reserve to prevent the world's biggest economy from slowing too much. 

 "The intensity and the timing (of the Fed move) caused the market to move from a fear syndrome to a feeding frenzy," said Alan Ackerman, analyst with Fahnestock & Co. "The only question is if it holds." 

 The Fed cut its key funds rate by a half percentage point to 6 percent. An interest rate cut is bullish for stocks because it ultimately lowers companies' borrowing costs. The market was hammered last year by fears that the slowing economy will hurt corporate profits. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index surged 295.95 points, or 12.91 percent, at 2,587.81, well on its way to post its largest percentage and point gain in history. It eclipsed its record Dec. 5th spike of 10 percent. 

 The blue chip Dow Jones industrial average climbed 287.91 points, or 2.7 percent, to 10,934.06. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index jumped 58.46 points, or 4.56 percent, to 1,341.73. 

 Nasdaq was lifted by a surge in the shares of heavyweights like Internet gear makers Cisco Systems Inc. and Juniper Networks, software giant Microsoft Corp, among others. Advancers on Nasdaq were beating decliners more than 2 to 1. 

 The Dow was lifted by high-tech components, including computing giant International Business Machines, up a whopping $8-15/16 at $93-3/4, and interest rate-sensitive financials like J.P. Morgan Chase, up $5-3/16 at $48-13/16. 

 The S&P Investment Banking index shot up a whopping 12.80 percent, reflecting gains by Wall Street brokerage houses Lehman Brothers, up $10-5/16 at $75-1/4 and Merrill Lynch, up $5-1/16 at $70-13/16. 

 But defensive sectors fell, including pharmaceuticals. Among the Dow components, Merck & Co. fell $4-1/16 to $88-15/16 and Johnson & Johnson shed $3 at $99, having both risen sharply last year as investors pumped money into such sectors, which are deemed as "safe havens" in times of economic uncertainty. The American Stock Exchange's Pharmaceuticals index fell 3.80 percent. 

 Wednesday's Fed announcement took the market by surprise. The central bank also cut the more symbolic discount rate on Fed loans to commercial banks by a quarter percentage point to 5.75 percent. 

 The move came four weeks ahead of the year's first meeting of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). It was the first time the Fed cut interest rates between regular FOMC meetings since the fall of 1998, when a global economic crisis threatened to seize up world financial markets. 

 The Fed had raised interest rates six times since the summer of 1999, to rein in inflation. These higher borrowing costs already have hurt corporate profit growth and contributed to a slew of companies' warning of disappointing results. 

 Before the early afternoon Fed announcement, stocks had traded either side of break-even. Nasdaq had a brief rally of 2 percent before falling back as investors kept up their guard after a dismal start to 2001 and hoped for an interest-rate cut to offset the fall-out from an economic slowdown. 

 On Tuesday, the Nasdaq had suffered its seventh largest percentage loss ever in the first trading day of 2001 as investors worried that a slowing economy would hurt corporate earnings. Last Friday, Nasdaq closed the year 2000 with its biggest ever yearly loss in its 29-year history. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1304cjs
 

 

 ADR REPORT-U.S. interest rates  cut , overseas firms rally. 

 By Jonathan Landreth 
882 words
3 January 2001
20:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 3 (Reuters) - The shares of overseas companies traded in the United States rallied on Wednesday afternoon after the United States Federal Reserve bank made a surprise announcement that it cut a key interest rate by half a percentage point. 

 "The rate cut will alleviate fears of an outright recession," said Steven Nagourney, chief global strategist at brokerage Cantor Fitzgerald. 

 After a morning of mixed trading that saw Europe hammered amid the Nasdaq's prolonged slide, the news from the Fed was welcome. 

 "We want to see this hold through the day because (the ADR market) has been characterized as one that sells into every rally," Nagourney said. 

 The Bank of New York Index of Leading American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) was up 2.65 percent and the BONY Index of leading Asian companies shot up 5.39 percent. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index climbed 262.63 points, or 11.59 percent, to 2,557.39, recording its biggest gain ever only one day after its seventh biggest loss ever, dropping 7.23 percent on Tuesday to reach a 22-month closing on fears a slowing U.S. economy could be headed for recession. 

 After early losses, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 235.86 points, or 2.22 percent, to 10,883.04. 

 "With this surprise it's hard to tell what's going to happen," said Rita Dajka, head ADR trader at Nomura Securities. "If this continues I can imagine that people will be buying into Asia, but right now it's just a rally on what's happening on the Nasdaq." 

 Singaporean chip company Chartered Semiconductor was trading at 10 percent premium over its home listing, up Wednesday afternoon $3-1/4 to trade at $28-1/8. 

 The ADR of China Mobile was also trading at a premium over its Hong Kong-listed domestic share, up $1-7/8, rising to $28-1/8. 

 In the morning, Australia's News Corp. emerged unscathed from a failed media partnership with WebMD Corp. On Tuesday, the companies announced that WebMD will exit cable TV, giving back to News Corp. its 50 percent stake in the jointly owned cable television network, The Health Network. For its part, News Corp. will return to WebMD its 50 percent stake in an international health information joint venture. 

 News Corp.'s ADR rose Wednesday afternoon by $2-7/8 to trade at $33-1/16. 

 The Tokyo share markets remained closed on Wednesday for the New Year's Holiday. Trading will resume on Thursday, January 4. 

 The BONY index of leading Latin American companies climbed 4.76 percent. 

 "Things are going to a premium," said Nagourney, "And Latin America will do really well." 

 On a day when Brazil's debt rating was upgraded by Standard & Poors, the news of the Fed rate cut was gravy. 

 Brazil's biggest telecommunications company, Embratel was up $1-5/16 to trade at $16-1/4, and Mexico's bellwether Telefonos de Mexico jumped $2-7/16 to trade at $46-3/4. 

 The BONY Index of leading European companies popped 2.20 percent on Wednesday afternoon. 

 The shares of German software giant SAP, the biggest such firm outside the U.S., swung from a the equivalent of about $118 to a high of about $129 in Frankfurt. 

 Losses in SAP's ADR may have been misguided because the "overlap" between SAP and the flagging German e-commerce software company Intershop, which issued a profit warning on Tuesday, are "tenuous at best," said Jim Cirenza, ADR trader at brokerage J.P. Morgan. 

 SAP was down $1-1/8 before the U.S. interest rate was cut, but bounced back $2-1/2 to trade at $32-13/16 on the New York Stock Exchange Wednesday. 

 In a similar rebound, French chip maker STMicroelectronics, which was downgraded to "outperform" from a "strong buy" by brokerage Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and lost $2-1/16 in the morning, regained $2-6/16 to trade at $42-11/16. 

 "We're seeing a huge buyback in Nokia and STM," said Nagourney, "And we expect this to continue, particularly if the Fed says it's willing to cut another 25 basis points." 

 The morning's other tech weaklings were the Finnish handset maker Nokia was down $2, to trade at $38-7/8, and Swedish competitor, Ericsson, down /16 to trade at $10-3/8. Both shot up on the news from Washington, however, with Nokia's ADR rising 1-7/8 to trade at $42-13/16, and Ericsson jumping 11/16 to trade at $11-11/16. 

 Among the companies providing phone service in Europe, France Telecom started the day as "reasonably resilient," according to Cirenza, but after by the afternoon was trading up $4-7/16 to trade at $86-15/16 unchanged from Tuesday's close. 

 "As a part of the tech sector, the telecoms are faring better," he said. 

 Britain's Vodafone Group PLC, which saw losses in its ADR in the morning when the English telecommunications company lost ground on Tuesday's weakness in the U.S. wireless market, rose on Wednesday afternoon by $1-3/8 to trade at $35-7/8. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1304cjk
 

 

 U.S. stocks in powerful rally after Fed cuts rates. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
623 words
3 January 2001
19:32
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 3 (Reuters) - Stocks soared in early afternoon trading on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve unexpectedly cut a key interest rate by half a percentage point to keep the world's largest economy from slowing too much. 

 "This is really good news, I thought they would do that but by the end of the month," said Peter Cardillo, Director of Research, Westfalia Investments in New York. "It should alleviate the fears of the U.S. economy getting into a full blown recession." 

 An interest rate cut is bullish for stocks because it ultimately lowers companies' borrowing costs. The market was hammered last year by fears that the slowing economy will hurt corporate profits. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index surged 203.05 points, or 8.86 percent, to 2,494.91, having shot up more than 11 percent earlier, which eclipsed its record Dec. 5th spike of 10 percent. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average bolted up 205.87 points, or 1.93 percent, to 10,852.02 points, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was up 42.96 points, or 3.35 percent, at 1,326.23. 

 The Federal Reserve cut the fed funds rate by a half percentage point to 6 percent. The central bank also cut the more symbolic discount rate on Fed loans to commercial banks by a quarter percentage point to 5.75 percent. 

 The move came four weeks ahead of the year's first meeting of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). It was the first time the Fed cut interest rates between regular FOMC meetings since the fall of 1998, when a global economic crisis threatened to seize up world financial markets. 

 The Fed had raised interest rates six times since the summer of 1999, to rein in inflation. These higher borrowing costs already have hurt corporate profit growth and contributed to a slew of companies' warning of disappointing results. 

 Before the early afternoon Fed announcement, stocks had traded either side of break-even. Nasdaq had a brief rally of 2 percent in the morning before falling back as investors kept up their guard after a dismal start to 2001 and hoped for an interest-rate cut to offset the fall-out from an economic slowdown. 

 On Tuesday, the Nasdaq had suffered its seventh largest percentage loss ever in the first trading day of 2001 as investors worried that a slowing economy would hurt corporate earnings. 

 The big tech rally on Wednesday was led by Nasdaq heavyweights like Internet gear makers Cisco Systems Inc. and Juniper Networks, software giant Microsoft Corp, among others. Advancers on Nasdaq were beating decliners more than 2 to 1. 

 The most active stock on the New York Stock Exchange was telecom equipment maker Nortel Networks up $3-15/16 at $34-1/4, while the most active stock on Nasdaq was Cisco, up $7-3/8 at $40-11/16 as it more than reversed Tuesday's battering. 

 A pile of economic data painting a softer-than-expected economic picture convinced investors that the Fed will ratchet down interest rates at its next meeting on Jan. 30-31. 

 Some traders had speculated the central bank would cut interest rates before then, especially if crucial employment numbers due on Friday point to more worrisome signs of a slowdown. Nonetheless, Wednesday's announcement took the market by surprise. 

 "That is clearly a very dramatic move, not only because it's off schedule but because of the magnitude," said Robert Armknecht, manager of the $2 billion Galaxy Equity Growth Fund. "It signals that there were legitimate concerns about the magnitude of the slowdown." 

Document lba0000020010713dx1304cj1
 

 

 German software stocks plunge on signs of U.S. chill. 

 By James Mackenzie 
744 words
3 January 2001
14:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 FRANKFURT, Jan 3 (Reuters) - Shares in German software companies continued slid further on Wednesday after e-commerce specialist Intershop Communications unnerved the market this week by slashing its forecasts for the fourth quarter. 

 Worries that a slowing U.S. economy could prompt customers to delay software investments hit a range of firms which have spent heavily to crack the world's biggest market but which face tough competition from local market leaders. 

 Intershop said on Tuesday it had lost six or seven major orders in the fourth quarter, mainly in the United States and Asia, as customers put investment plans on hold. 

 The news, which came on top of a string of recent warnings from software companies including Excelon , Network Associates and Fantastic , suggested that growth momentum in the sector was slowing, making many of the valuations attached to software companies appear too high. 

 With software shares across Europe tumbling, shares in Germany continued the sharp falls seen a day earlier. 

 Intershop , which lost more than two thirds of its market capitalisation on Tuesday kept falling, shedding over 22 percent by 1415 GMT as investment banks lined up to chop their ratings on the stock and earnings forecasts. 

 SAP, Europe's biggest software maker, dropped another six percent on top of the more than 10 percent it lost on Tuesday, as the market focused on its upcoming results on January 23. 

 Brokat Infosystems, a specialist in e-commerce software for the financial sector, was downgraded by ABN Amro because of concerns that weak demand in the United States will weigh on the company's share price. 

 SLOWING INVESTMENT 

 Gathering signs of a slowdown in the U.S. economy, including data showing manufacturing at its lowest level in nearly 10 years, has given German software companies a taste of the chill which has hit U.S. rivals. 

 "There are clearly signs pointing to IT expenditure being reduced in the New Year," Deutsche Bank analyst Kevin Ashton said. "These companies are definitely going to feel that." 

 For years, European software companies have seen success in the United States as a crucial mark of credibility but a slowdown will stretch many, as customers limit spending and turn increasingly to established market leaders. 

 "Very few have been successful at it, especially from the Neuer Markt. Even SAP has found it more difficult recently," Ashton said. 

 With slowing growth prospects hitting U.S. software giants like Microsoft and Oracle , the sector has become notably less attractive to investors. 

 "The big fear is that IT spending will decline as the economy slows and that software will be the area most affected. With Intershop, there may have been reasons particular to the company, but it's affecting the sector as a whole," Lorenzo Carcano of fund managers Metzler Investment in Frankfurt said. 

 "The concern is that a lot of the forecasts are still too optimistic and even if the reaction has been a bit exaggerated with some of the shares, there is still room for disappointment, not just with earnings but also with sales. 

 Carcano said the uncertainty was likely to persist for at least the first quarter of 2001. 

 A dose of market psychology was also involved in the fall as investors hurt by a string of bad news from the Neuer Markt pulled out at once. 

 "It's a loss of confidence," one trader from a major international bank in Frankfurt said. 

 "The share is going to tread water at some level but it's stung a lot of people and there's a complete collapse in confidence," he said, adding that both institutional and retail investors had been baling out of the stock. 

 PLUNGING SHARES 

 A day after a conference call with analysts on Tuesday, Intershop felt the fallout, with a spate of estimate revisions. 

 Following on from Deutsche Bank and ABN Amro, which both downgraded Intershop on Tuesday, UBS Warburg cut its rating to "hold" from "strong buy", while Credit Suisse Boston, Commerzbank and Robertson Stephens sharply reduced their 2001 earnings and revenue estimates. 

 SAP, which touched a new low for the year late on Tuesday, saw no relief either. 

 Rumours of a profit warning which frequently precede SAP's quarterly results were again in the market, although analysts said they appeared to have little substance. 

 SAP reiterated that it expects solid top line growth in the fourth quarter but declined to comment further. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1304cfd
 

 

 Intershop Wants More US Competitor Cooperations - Report 

216 words
3 January 2001
11:55
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 FRANKFURT -(Dow Jones)- Electronic-commerce software group, Intershop Communications AG (ISHP), wants to increase cooperation with competitors like Commerce One Inc. (CMRC), to boost its U.S. business, according to a report Wednesday in Germany's Wirtschafts Woche magazine. 

 Chief Financial Officer, Wilfried Beeck, told the business weekly: "To step up our U.S. business, we will cooperate increasingly with competitors such as Commerce One." 

 Beeck also told the magazine that the company plans to cut marketing and sales expenses to EUR50 million every quarter as a result of its reduced sales and earnings forecast, announced late Monday. 

 An Intershop spokesman confirmed the contents of the article in general, but said he couldn't confirm the EUR50 million figure. 

 Intershop does plan to reduce its expenses, but will reveal its budget forecasts in a final 2000 earnings report Jan. 31, the spokesman said. 

 Last year, Intershop began a cooperation with Commerce One, and the Intershop spokesman confirmed that the company wants to increase such alliances. 

 On Tuesday, the shares slid 71% in the wake of the company's profitwarning. By 1148 GMT Wednesday, they were down EUR2.05, or 21%, at EUR7.98. 

 -By Angela Cullen, Dow Jones Newswires; 49 69 2972 5500; angela.cullen@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx13001np
 

 

 Intershop Pft Warning A Bad Sign For New Economy In 2001 

 By Chris Reiter 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
991 words
2 January 2001
16:14
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 BERLIN -(Dow Jones)- The new year got off to a bad start for the New Economy, with leading e-commerce software company Intershop Communications AG (ISHP) issuing a profit warning even before markets had woken up to 2001. 

 Shares plunged 67% Tuesday after Intershop admitted late Monday that it wouldn't reach its 2000 earnings targets, blaming a global slowdown on information technology spending and sales taking longer to close. Both are bad signs for a sector already reeling from a horrid 2000. 

 The top European e-commerce platform-maker, Intershop - which is traded on the Neuer Markt and Nasdaq - expects fourth-quarter revenue of EUR28 million to EUR30 million, well below its earlier forecast of EUR40 million to EUR50 million. 

 As a result, the company will lose more than expected, with its 2000 net loss seen coming in at EUR37 million to EUR39 million, compared with a previously expected loss of about EUR10 million. 

 "We are disappointed with the results for the fourth quarter of 2000. Several multi-million dollar sales opportunities that we expected to close in late 2000 have been postponed until 2001," said Intershop's Chief Financial Officer Wilfried Beeck. 

 "We do, of course, see reason for corrective measures that are directly related to Intershop's internal issues," Beeck told analysts later Tuesday, adding that the company will reduce hiring outside of the sales force and streamline operations, with management focused on improving sales. 

 The lion's share of the missed sales opportunities were in the U.S., where the company's sales were just EUR4 million compared with expectations of EUR20 million, Beeck said. 

 To counteract this, the company is planning to beef up its 20-strong sales force. 

 "We need to hire more sale people in the U.S. We need to make our operations more sales-centric," Beeck said. 

 On top of the missed sales target, the company is expecting to write off EUR5 million in bad debt in the fourth quarter. 

 Shares Plummet And Drag Fellow Tech Stocks Down Too 

 Despite the profit warning, the company still expects to be profitable in 2001 and expects to close some of the deals postponed from 2000 in the first quarter, though Beeck backed off making a forecast until the company had all the figures and time to revisit clients. 

 And with over EUR100 million in cash, the company has "more than enough to carry...through to profitability," Beeck said. 

 Nevertheless, the damage has been done. 

 The warning prompted analysts to downgrade the stock and caused investors to flee in droves. And it cast gloom over fellow technology stocks. 

 "In this market, investors are intolerant of investing in companies that are losing money and this announcement shows that (Intershop) will continue making losses going forward," said Dresdner Kleinwert Benson analyst Bob Liao. 

 Intershop shares plummeted 67% to EUR11.10. ABN Amro dropped its rating on the share to Reduce from Buy, while Merck Finck cut Intershop to Market Performer from Outperformer. Lehman Brothers dropped its rating to Neutral from Buy. 

 Other Neuer Markt-listed software developers also suffered, with Broadvision Inc. (BVSN) and Brokat AG (G.BKT) falling 17% and 34%, respectively. The technology heavy Nemax 50 index slumped 8% to 2,632 points. Even software heavyweights like SAP AG (G.SAP) felt the pressure, falling 9.6% to EUR110.60. 

 The concern for Intershop and other specialist software companies is that they are falling down the priority list when it comes to getting a piece of corporate IT budgets. 

 However, Brokat spokesman Reiner Jung said the company doesn't have problems with customers delaying sales decisions and reiterated its plans to reach the break-even mark this year. Broadvision officials weren't available for comment. 

 The failure of dot-coms - such as Letsbuyit.com NV (U.LBY), which filed for protection from creditors in the Netherlands on Friday - means that traditional Old Economy companies no longer have the same urgency to improve their Internet presence. As a result, this once-eager customer base is thinning, said David Clayton, a technology analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 The slowdown of the global economy is also causing companies to tighten belts and opt for software that cuts costs rather than buy e-commerce packages that offer potential revenue, said a technology analyst at private bank Merck Finck. 

 Specialized e-commerce companies are also facing more competition from big IT groups, which offer more comprehensive applications. 

 "The market is maturing and specialist e-commerce companies such as Intershop will face increasing competition from heavyweights in adjacent markets, like IBM," said Dresdner Kleinwert Benson analyst Bob Liao. 

 "Vendors with relatively narrow solutions may have a difficult year," CSFB's Clayton said. 

 But Intershop denied that it's feeling competitive pressure and said outside suppliers weren't a threat. 

 "We believe we deliver a much more complete solution. This is not a major concern for us," CFO Beeck said. 

 Slammed by the worldwide downturn in technology stocks, the Neuer Markt has also been hit by a string of high-profile and often scandalous flameouts. Since September, three Neuer Markt companies have filed for bankruptcy, and several others have lost more than half their market value after acknowledging they badly overestimated growth - some only weeks after their initial public offerings. EM.TV & Merchandising AG, once the Neuer Markt's most valuable stock, and at least two other companies are under investigation for fraud and insider trading. The 338-share Neuer Markt Index fell 46% in the fourth quarter alone. 

 The collapses recently forced Deutsche Boerse AG, the operator of the Frankfurt stock exchange, to require Neuer Markt companies to reveal when top executives or directors buy or sell stock. 

 Company Web site: http://www.intershop.com

 -By Chris Reiter, Dow Jones Newswires; +49 30 288 8410; chris.reiter@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx120017j
 

 

 2001: Euro stocks odyssey starts with losses in high tech sector ATTENTION - ADDS Frankfurt close /// 

690 words
2 January 2001
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 LONDON, Jan 2 (AFP) - Europe's main stock markets closed in losses on Tuesday, their first session of the new year, as price falls in US equity markets savaged investment sentiment, traders said. 

 Just as they bore the brunt of the assault on share values last year, technology, media and telecommunications (TMT) stocks again fell foul of sell orders, fuelled by further declines in the US Nasdaq composite index. 

 Weaker-than-expected US purchasing statistics helped push the Nasdaq and Dow Jones Industrial Average index lower, continuing the weakness seen on Wall Street from last Friday. 

 "There are fears of a hard landing in the US, and over the coming weeks the trick will be to evaluate at what rate they're slowing at," said one Paris trader. 

 "We think the first half of 2001 will be difficult, but a gradual recovery will show up in the third quarter," he said. 

 In London, the FTSE 100 index closed down 47.08 points, or 0.77 percent, at 6,174.7 from Friday. 

 In Paris the CAC 40 index dropped 2.15 percent to 5,798.90 points, while in Frankfurt the DAX index retreated 2.23 percent to 6,289.82 points in late trading. 

 In the 11-nation euro zone, the Euro Stoxx 50 index fell 1.01 percent at 4,511.20 points. 

 However, the euro had reasons to be cheerful, pushing to 0.9458 dollars, near to the psychological level of 0.95 dollars, its highest for six months. 

 Equity investors were rattled by a bigger-than-expected fall in the US National Association of Purchasing Management index in December, which boosted fears that the US economy could be heading for a "hard landing," which would undermine share markets worldwide. 

 December's NAPM index fell to 43.7 percent, from 47.7 percent in November, well below forecasts of a fall to 46.9 percent. 

 In Paris, renewed concerns about the profitability for TMT stocks prompted heavy selling which offset the switch to defensive issues, dealers said. 

 The losses on the high-tech Nasdaq index undermined Alcatel, which dropped 3.0 euros, or 4.96 percent, to 57.50 euros, Vivendi Universal fell 2.10 euros, or 3.0 percent, to 68 euros and France Telecom dropped 4.70 euros, or 5.11 percent, at 87.25 euros. 

 Thales, formerly Thomson-CSF, climbed 0.65 euros to 51.70 euros, leading gains among industrial stocks and benefiting from its exposure to the US defence sector, dealers said. 

 "The armaments sector is being sought out because of the policies of the new American president," said one trader, noting that President-elect George W Bush has stated plans to boost defence capabilities through increased military spending. 

 In London, traders were selling to the same hymn sheet. Blue-chip technology and telecom issues carried on falling in 2001 as they did in 2000. 

 Autonomy topped the list of FTSE 100 fallers, tumbling 228 pence to 1,700 pence. Logica lost 79 pence at 1,671 pence, and Sage Group fell 13-3/4 pence at 293. 

 Dixons was the biggest blue-chip gainer, adding 11 pence at 235 ahead next week's interim results and after last week's surprise early trading news. Dealers noted the retailer was seen as a winner from the Christmas sales, with mobile phones, computers, and computer games likely to have been a big draw for presents. 

 Rolls-Royce added 3-1/4 pence at 201-1/2 after unveiling the sale of its Vickers Turbine Components business to Royal Bank Private Equity for 74 million pounds. 

 Steel group Corus rallied to add 0.50 pence at 72. The Sunday Times reported that the Anglo-Dutch firm is preparing to close three UK plants and cut up to 10,000 jobs. 

 In Frankfurt, the high-tech meltdown caught up with business software group SAP, which ended down 18.60 euros at 131.20 euros after Intershop, the German maker of e-commerce software, issued a profit warning. 

 bur/pt/rmb 

Document afpr000020010709dx1200gyu
 

 

financial
TEFRON'S SALES  DECLINE , CITES SOFT U.S. DEMAND -  

Evan Clark  
479 words
2 January 2001
Women's Wear Daily
WWD
18
English
Copyright 2001 Fairchild Publications, Inc. All Rights Reserved  

NEW YORK -- Hampered by the weakness of the euro and softness  

in demand from several U.S. customers, Tefron Ltd.'s  

third-quarter sales dropped below revised expectations and  

forced earnings to fall $900,000 into the red.  

The loss for the quarter ended Sept. 30 was equivalent to 7  

cents a diluted share and compared to year-ago earnings of $2  

million, or 16 cents a diluted share. In a profit warning in  

October, the company had said third-quarter earnings would be  

approximately break-even.  

Still, sales for the period increased 32.9 percent to $50.1  

million during the quarter against year-ago sales of $37.7  

million. In a profit warning in October, the Bnei-Brak,  

Israel-based innerwear manufacturer said that revenues for both  

the third and fourth quarters would range between $54 million  

and $60 million. Tefron now expects fourth-quarter results to  

match third-quarter earnings and sales.  

Sigi Rabinowicz, chief executive, noted in a statement that the  

timing of the Jewish New Year reduced sales and bore some of the  

responsibility for the loss. In the October warning, he said,  

``The weakness that we have been experiencing is coming from our  

larger existing programs.''  

While the company did not specify the accounts responsible for  

the softness, a research note from Rouleau said, ``We believe  

that women's seamless briefs may be losing some of their cache  

at the status level due to the widespread availability of the  

product and pricing pressures at the mass market level.''  

Discounters such as Kohl's and Wal-Mart widely carry variations  

of the seamless brief.  

Tefron specializes in higher-quality products, and its customer  

base consists primarily of specialty retailers and status  

brands, so it ``carries a higher degree of exposure to this  

trend than other seamless manufacturers,'' said Rouleau.  

Rabinowicz said, ``We intend to replace this reduced revenue by  

shifting sales to other existing customers, as well as  

increasing sales from our new products.'' The company won't be  

immediately able to take advantage of additional production  

capacity now available to its other customers. Rouleau estimates  

it will be ``a minimum of nine months before the company's  

manufacturing facilities are operating at full capacity again.''  

Rabinowicz noted that, while tensions in the Mideast have forced  

it to reduce production at its facility in Jordan, it hadn't  

affected the company in other ways. Alternative sourcing  

arrangements are being studied.  

During the quarter, Nathan Pulwer joined Tefron as chief  

financial officer, succeeding Micha Korman, who was named  

executive vice president.  

For the nine months, income increased 2 percent to $5 million  

against $4.9 million. Diluted earnings per share for both  

quarters were 39 cents. Sales for the period almost doubled to  

$174.4 million, compared to $88 million a year ago.  

Document WWD0000020040514dx12005hl
 

 

 MARKET TALK: GE Proves Not Immune To Market's Woes 

1,000 words
2 January 2001
20:18
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



3:18 (Dow Jones) In the "not-how-you-want-to-start-the-year" category:
The Wall Street Journal greeted General Electric (GE) with a front-page
story Tuesday highlighting problems with its CF-6 jet engines. The
report has helped to knock the stock down close to its 52-week low of
$41.65 despite analysts' and management's view that the engine issue is
old news and won't impact earnings at all. Concern about a weakening
economy is also hurting the stock. But many money managers remain
strongly bullish on GE. "GE is positioned better than any of its peers,"
said Mike Holton of T.Rowe Price. (CCW)



3:04 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite takes out Dec. 21, 2000, intraday
low of 2288. Off 183 at 2287. DJIA down 156 at 10629. (TG)



3:04 (Dow Jones) "I believe that given the lack of signs of current or
future inflation, the Federal Reserve should cut interest rates
immediately, and not wait until the end of the month," said Rep. Saxton,
Joint Economic Committee vice chairman. "An inter-meeting cut in
interest rates is appropriate in the current environment created, in
part, by an overly tight" Fed. (JC)



2:56 (Dow Jones) Software stocks are getting pummeled in heavy selling
Tuesday pushing the Goldman Sachs software index down 13%. The shorts
are having their druthers, one market watcher says, amid fears that
scaled back IT spending will prompt more pre-announcements or result in
weak quarterly reports. Among those stocks dropping 25% or more: Veritas
(VRTS), Commerce One (CMRC), Manugistics (MANU) and i2 Technologies
(ITWO). (MLP)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude rebounds after tracking heating oil
futures lower earlier in the session. No news cited. Trading remains
light and choppy, with most of the action on the nearby contracts.
Front-month Feb.-March spread widens to as much as 69 cents, reflecting
buying interest in the front month contract. Feb. up 55c at $27.35.
Short-term resistance at $27.45, $28. (MXF)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Shares of VeriSign (VRSN) are getting hit hard on a
Robertson Stephens downgrade of the Internet sector, but A.G. Edwards
says the "broad brush" shouldn't paint the company. A.G. Edwards
believes Internet security is a trend that will continue to show
"phenomenal" growth through this year and beyond. "For investors willing
to ride through this period of inherent volatility and uncertainty,
VeriSign is a core holding in the long run," says analyst John
Puricelli. (TG)



2:36 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps hit limit down, 32 points lower, falling
to 1303 at 2:29 p.m. ET. A 10-minute trading curb is in effect. If the
market remains at limit down, a 2-minute trading halt will occur. The
next limit is 65 points lower. (DMC)



2:24 (Dow Jones) First it was the election, then tax-loss selling, now
it's stagflation. Regardless of the excuse, stocks extending weakness.
While semis are in midst of nice intraday turnaround, tech in general
stinks. Nasdaq 100 off 7.5%, Nasdaq Computer index down 7.6%, and Nasdaq
telecom index drops 6.2%. New 52-week lows abound, and Nasdaq Composite
is not too far from Dec. 21 low of 2288. DJIA off 145 at 10641, Nasdaq
Composite drops 153 to 2315, and S&P 500 falls 32 to 1288. (TG)



2:12 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is inching toward 95 cents, well supported by
the weak NAPM report. Last time euro was trading above 95 cents was July
12. It's at $0.9488, slightly off high intra-day high of $0.9496. (CSE)



1:57 (Dow Jones) Salomon Smith Barney analyst Jack Grubman strongly
reiterates buy on WorldCom (WCOM), the firm's top pick in telecom
services. Believes company will hit 4Q 12%-14% revenue growth guidance,
and says WCOM still possesses best set of global network and IP assets
to address needs of corporate enterprises. Price target is $45. (TG)



1:41 (Dow Jones) After a bounce mid-morning off session lows, traders
say they believe March S&Ps and Nasdaq will begin to retest the low.
"The bounce in the Nasdaq was nice, but it was one to sell," he says.
"Considering we were down 5%, the bounce back was nothing." As for the
light volume, the trader says it takes a few days for volume to get back
after the holiday. (DMC)



1:36 (Dow Jones) With a big December, small-cap names managed to
outduel large-caps again in 2000, the second straight year of
outperformance. Prudential's Steven DeSanctis notes that when small-caps
beat large-caps in a down year, they usually go on to outperform them in
the subsequent year. He also notes small-cap value beat growth by its
widest margin ever in 2000. (TG)



1:15 (Dow Jones) Business-to-business players and Internet software
vendors are slumping in heavy trading in the wake of a profit warning
from European star Intershop Communications (ISHP). Intershop, which
blammed its shortfall on slack demand from major corporations for its
e-commerce platform, has heightened fears of slowing technology
spending. Its stock has fallen two-thirds and is pressuring many of its
U.S. counterparts. Among those down 15% or more are rivals BroadVision
(BVSN), Art Technology (ARTG) and Blue Martini (BLUE). (MLP)



1:03 (Dow Jones) U.S. Bancorp market strategy chief Brian Belski
believes the market is  entering a "transitional stage" in which stocks
will return in the 8%-10% range for a few years, compared with 25%-30%
of the past three or four years. A re-examination of "investing
disciplines and strategies" and "the scars of 2000" will put a "collar"
on price performance, he said. (MER)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx12000kp
 

 

 MARKET TALK: Short-Sellers Dream In Software Group 

1,343 words
2 January 2001
19:56
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



2:56 (Dow Jones) Software stocks are getting pummeled in heavy selling
Tuesday pushing the Goldman Sachs software index down 13%. The shorts
are having their druthers, one market watcher says, amid fears that
scaled back IT spending will prompt more pre-announcements or result in
weak quarterly reports. Among those stocks dropping 25% or more: Veritas
(VRTS), Commerce One (CMRC), Manugistics (MANU) and i2 Technologies
(ITWO). (MLP)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude rebounds after tracking heating oil
futures lower earlier in the session. No news cited. Trading remains
light and choppy, with most of the action on the nearby contracts.
Front-month Feb.-March spread widens to as much as 69 cents, reflecting
buying interest in the front month contract. Feb. up 55c at $27.35.
Short-term resistance at $27.45, $28. (MXF)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Shares of VeriSign (VRSN) are getting hit hard on a
Robertson Stephens downgrade of the Internet sector, but A.G. Edwards
says the "broad brush" shouldn't paint the company. A.G. Edwards
believes Internet security is a trend that will continue to show
"phenomenal" growth through this year and beyond. "For investors willing
to ride through this period of inherent volatility and uncertainty,
VeriSign is a core holding in the long run," says analyst John
Puricelli. (TG)



2:36 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps hit limit down, 32 points lower, falling
to 1303 at 2:29 p.m. ET. A 10-minute trading curb is in effect. If the
market remains at limit down, a 2-minute trading halt will occur. The
next limit is 65 points lower. (DMC)



2:24 (Dow Jones) First it was the election, then tax-loss selling, now
it's stagflation. Regardless of the excuse, stocks extending weakness.
While semis are in midst of nice intraday turnaround, tech in general
stinks. Nasdaq 100 off 7.5%, Nasdaq Computer index down 7.6%, and Nasdaq
telecom index drops 6.2%. New 52-week lows abound, and Nasdaq Composite
is not too far from Dec. 21 low of 2288. DJIA off 145 at 10641, Nasdaq
Composite drops 153 to 2315, and S&P 500 falls 32 to 1288. (TG)



2:12 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is inching toward 95 cents, well supported by
the weak NAPM report. Last time euro was trading above 95 cents was July
12. It's at $0.9488, slightly off high intra-day high of $0.9496. (CSE)



1:57 (Dow Jones) Salomon Smith Barney analyst Jack Grubman strongly
reiterates buy on WorldCom (WCOM), the firm's top pick in telecom
services. Believes company will hit 4Q 12%-14% revenue growth guidance,
and says WCOM still possesses best set of global network and IP assets
to address needs of corporate enterprises. Price target is $45. (TG)



1:41 (Dow Jones) After a bounce mid-morning off session lows, traders
say they believe March S&Ps and Nasdaq will begin to retest the low.
"The bounce in the Nasdaq was nice, but it was one to sell," he says.
"Considering we were down 5%, the bounce back was nothing." As for the
light volume, the trader says it takes a few days for volume to get back
after the holiday. (DMC)



1:36 (Dow Jones) With a big December, small-cap names managed to
outduel large-caps again in 2000, the second straight year of
outperformance. Prudential's Steven DeSanctis notes that when small-caps
beat large-caps in a down year, they usually go on to outperform them in
the subsequent year. He also notes small-cap value beat growth by its
widest margin ever in 2000. (TG)



1:15 (Dow Jones) Business-to-business players and Internet software
vendors are slumping in heavy trading in the wake of a profit warning
from European star Intershop Communications (ISHP). Intershop, which
blammed its shortfall on slack demand from major corporations for its
e-commerce platform, has heightened fears of slowing technology
spending. Its stock has fallen two-thirds and is pressuring many of its
U.S. counterparts. Among those down 15% or more are rivals BroadVision
(BVSN), Art Technology (ARTG) and Blue Martini (BLUE). (MLP)



1:03 (Dow Jones) U.S. Bancorp market strategy chief Brian Belski
believes the market is  entering a "transitional stage" in which stocks
will return in the 8%-10% range for a few years, compared with 25%-30%
of the past three or four years. A re-examination of "investing
disciplines and strategies" and "the scars of 2000" will put a "collar"
on price performance, he said. (MER)



12:47 (Dow Jones) Gazing into his crystal ball, Gruntal investment
guru Joe Battipaglia sees several reasons to expect above-average
returns for stocks in 2001. Chief among them, the likelihood of a
combined 75- to 100-basis-point Fed short-term rate cut this year. He
also believes contraction is mostly done, with irrational exuberance
having given way to "more disciplined" valuation. (MER)



12:28 (Dow Jones) Andrx Corp. (ADRX) removed some of the uncertainty
that weighed its shares down. It came to an understanding with GenPharm
Inc. by confirming Andrx's status as the first to file an application
with the FDA for a generic version of Prilosec, AstraZeneca PLC's (AZN)
ulcer medicine. As a result, Andrx avoids litigation with GenPharma and
can enjoy 180 days of exclusivity for its generic drug, establish market
share, and gain sales at higher prices when faced with several generic
rivals. Andrx shares rose 18%. (BMM)



12:16 (Dow Jones) Tyson Foods (TSN) CEO John Tyson is discounting the
downdraft in his company's stock over the pending IBP acquisition. He
says acquiring the beef giant is "a unique opportunity" that
shareholders will appreciate down the line. Tyson predicts the deal will
be wrapped up by Valentine's Day. (RLG)



12:07 (Dow Jones) Fears of slowing economy still weighing on corporate
yields, leaving the market languishing as Treasurys rally. Telecom yield
spreads, battered in recent weeks on credit concerns, another 5 bp wider
on long end. (DA)



11:59 (Dow Jones) Bondtalk.com analyst Anthony Crescenzi says the Fed
may choose to act Friday if payroll numbers come in weaker than
expected. Crescenzi contends that "Greenspan has shown a preference for
acting on payroll statistics, having cut rates four times on payroll
Fridays in 1991." (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg strategist Ed Kerschner reiterates that
stocks currently offer one of the five best buying opportunities of the
past 20 years. He notes that in the previous four periods of 15%-plus
appreciation in the past 20 years, the negative effect on stocks of
declining earnings was more than offset by the positive effect of Fed
easings, a scenario that could well be repeated this year. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) In a renegotiation of its pact to merge with
Intermedia Communications Inc. (ICIX), WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) could divert
some of the stock payment to Digex Inc. (DIGX) shareholders, said Aryeh
Bourkoff, a high-yield analyst at UBS Warburg. A lawsuit filed by
minority shareholders of Intermedia subsidiary Digex has thrown the
merger into question and widened the spread between the two partners as
WorldCom has repeatedly declined to comment on intention to proceed with
the merger. In an S-4 filed Friday, WorldCom repeated that it expects
the merger to close in the first quarter, but declined to comment
publicly. (CBN)



11:29 (Dow Jones) Floor technical trader says to keep an eye around
the 1313 level on March S&Ps, which is the half-way back level between
the Nov. low of 1270 and the recent high. "We've been taking out support
fast and that suggests no one knows where this is going to end," he
says. "But when you look at it, we're still in mid-range." (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx12000je
 

 

 MARKET TALK: March S&Ps Hit Limit Down 

1,126 words
2 January 2001
19:36
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



2:36 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps hit limit down, 32 points lower, falling
to 1303 at 2:29 p.m. ET. A 10-minute trading curb is in effect. If the
market remains at limit down, a 2-minute trading halt will occur. The
next limit is 65 points lower. (DMC)



2:24 (Dow Jones) First it was the election, then tax-loss selling, now
it's stagflation. Regardless of the excuse, stocks extending weakness.
While semis are in midst of nice intraday turnaround, tech in general
stinks. Nasdaq 100 off 7.5%, Nasdaq Computer index down 7.6%, and Nasdaq
telecom index drops 6.2%. New 52-week lows abound, and Nasdaq Composite
is not too far from Dec. 21 low of 2288. DJIA off 145 at 10641, Nasdaq
Composite drops 153 to 2315, and S&P 500 falls 32 to 1288. (TG)



2:12 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is inching toward 95 cents, well supported by
the weak NAPM report. Last time euro was trading above 95 cents was July
12. It's at $0.9488, slightly off high intra-day high of $0.9496. (CSE)



1:57 (Dow Jones) Salomon Smith Barney analyst Jack Grubman strongly
reiterates buy on WorldCom (WCOM), the firm's top pick in telecom
services. Believes company will hit 4Q 12%-14% revenue growth guidance,
and says WCOM still possesses best set of global network and IP assets
to address needs of corporate enterprises. Price target is $45. (TG)



1:41 (Dow Jones) After a bounce mid-morning off session lows, traders
say they believe March S&Ps and Nasdaq will begin to retest the low.
"The bounce in the Nasdaq was nice, but it was one to sell," he says.
"Considering we were down 5%, the bounce back was nothing." As for the
light volume, the trader says it takes a few days for volume to get back
after the holiday. (DMC)



1:36 (Dow Jones) With a big December, small-cap names managed to
outduel large-caps again in 2000, the second straight year of
outperformance. Prudential's Steven DeSanctis notes that when small-caps
beat large-caps in a down year, they usually go on to outperform them in
the subsequent year. He also notes small-cap value beat growth by its
widest margin ever in 2000. (TG)



1:15 (Dow Jones) Business-to-business players and Internet software
vendors are slumping in heavy trading in the wake of a profit warning
from European star Intershop Communications (ISHP). Intershop, which
blammed its shortfall on slack demand from major corporations for its
e-commerce platform, has heightened fears of slowing technology
spending. Its stock has fallen two-thirds and is pressuring many of its
U.S. counterparts. Among those down 15% or more are rivals BroadVision
(BVSN), Art Technology (ARTG) and Blue Martini (BLUE). (MLP)



1:03 (Dow Jones) U.S. Bancorp market strategy chief Brian Belski
believes the market is  entering a "transitional stage" in which stocks
will return in the 8%-10% range for a few years, compared with 25%-30%
of the past three or four years. A re-examination of "investing
disciplines and strategies" and "the scars of 2000" will put a "collar"
on price performance, he said. (MER)



12:47 (Dow Jones) Gazing into his crystal ball, Gruntal investment
guru Joe Battipaglia sees several reasons to expect above-average
returns for stocks in 2001. Chief among them, the likelihood of a
combined 75- to 100-basis-point Fed short-term rate cut this year. He
also believes contraction is mostly done, with irrational exuberance
having given way to "more disciplined" valuation. (MER)



12:28 (Dow Jones) Andrx Corp. (ADRX) removed some of the uncertainty
that weighed its shares down. It came to an understanding with GenPharm
Inc. by confirming Andrx's status as the first to file an application
with the FDA for a generic version of Prilosec, AstraZeneca PLC's (AZN)
ulcer medicine. As a result, Andrx avoids litigation with GenPharma and
can enjoy 180 days of exclusivity for its generic drug, establish market
share, and gain sales at higher prices when faced with several generic
rivals. Andrx shares rose 18%. (BMM)



12:16 (Dow Jones) Tyson Foods (TSN) CEO John Tyson is discounting the
downdraft in his company's stock over the pending IBP acquisition. He
says acquiring the beef giant is "a unique opportunity" that
shareholders will appreciate down the line. Tyson predicts the deal will
be wrapped up by Valentine's Day. (RLG)



12:07 (Dow Jones) Fears of slowing economy still weighing on corporate
yields, leaving the market languishing as Treasurys rally. Telecom yield
spreads, battered in recent weeks on credit concerns, another 5 bp wider
on long end. (DA)



11:59 (Dow Jones) Bondtalk.com analyst Anthony Crescenzi says the Fed
may choose to act Friday if payroll numbers come in weaker than
expected. Crescenzi contends that "Greenspan has shown a preference for
acting on payroll statistics, having cut rates four times on payroll
Fridays in 1991." (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg strategist Ed Kerschner reiterates that
stocks currently offer one of the five best buying opportunities of the
past 20 years. He notes that in the previous four periods of 15%-plus
appreciation in the past 20 years, the negative effect on stocks of
declining earnings was more than offset by the positive effect of Fed
easings, a scenario that could well be repeated this year. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) In a renegotiation of its pact to merge with
Intermedia Communications Inc. (ICIX), WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) could divert
some of the stock payment to Digex Inc. (DIGX) shareholders, said Aryeh
Bourkoff, a high-yield analyst at UBS Warburg. A lawsuit filed by
minority shareholders of Intermedia subsidiary Digex has thrown the
merger into question and widened the spread between the two partners as
WorldCom has repeatedly declined to comment on intention to proceed with
the merger. In an S-4 filed Friday, WorldCom repeated that it expects
the merger to close in the first quarter, but declined to comment
publicly. (CBN)



11:29 (Dow Jones) Floor technical trader says to keep an eye around
the 1313 level on March S&Ps, which is the half-way back level between
the Nov. low of 1270 and the recent high. "We've been taking out support
fast and that suggests no one knows where this is going to end," he
says. "But when you look at it, we're still in mid-range." (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx12000ii
 

 Still Waiting for The Line To Clear 

 Shankar P 
1,060 words
2 January 2001
Business News New Jersey
BNNJ
North ed.
34
Volume 14, Issue 1; ISSN: 1087-0229
English
 Copyright (c) 2001 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. Copyright Snowden Publications, Inc. Jan 02, 2001 

 New Jersey's telecommunications players will be trying to strike a balance this year between being too big or too small and playing in old markets or new in their fast-changing industry. 

 While big players such as Bernards Township-based AT&T and New Providence-based Lucent Technologies seek to downsize, others such as Newark-based IDT will be looking for cheap acquisitions as the industry heads for a shake-out. 

 Leading the shake-out parade will be AT&T as it moves ahead with its plan to split into four companies handling business services, consumer markets, wireless and broadband. A tracking stock will be issued this summer for AT&T Broadband in the cable TV, video, pay TV and telephony markets, followed by a public offering in 2002. 

 Bruised by what are looking like dubious cable TV acquisitions that left it with $62 billion in debt, AT&T is also hoping to offset sagging margins in its long-distance phone services with higher revenues from Internet data centers for Web hosting and the like. It will also try desperately to prune its debt burden and meet Federal Communications Commission rules on cable network ownership by selling key assets, such as its holdings in cable programming company Liberty Media and its 25.5% stake in Time Warner Entertainment, a subsidiary of Time Warner, whose purchase by America On Line should be completed this year. FCC rules bar any company from serving more than 30% of payTV subscribers. AT&T currently serves more than 40%. 

 The big humiliation, however, came in December when the company slashed its dividend estimate by 83% for fiscal 2001 (to 150 a share from its consistent annual payout of 880), and put out the year's third profit warning. It was the first time in the company's history that it cut its dividend. 

 While CEO Michael Armstrong deflected Wall Street wrath with his restructuring plan, his counterpart at Lucent, Richard McGinn, had to quit. That came after four earnings warnings in the past year, missed earnings targets, lost market share in optical networking to Ontario, Canada-based rival Nortel Networks, and missed demand signals from the market. Since hitting a peak stock price of $77.78 on December 20, 1999, the company has lost some $200 billion in market capitalization. 

 This year, as caretaker CEO Henry Schacht (who served as CEO before McGinn) tries to put Lucent's house back in order, his first task is to find a replacement for himself. He will leave the new CEO with a much smaller but hopefully more agile company after its microelectronics division, Agere Systems, is spun off in a stock offering planned for March that's expected to bring home some $8 billion. 

 Schacht and his CFO of nine months, Deborah Hopkins, have also set themselves the tasks of reining in trade receivables, vendor financing arrangements and installing a new regime for recognizing receivables to replace a system that wrongly booked a whopping $679 million in the fourth quarter as revenue. 

 "The company is basically sound, and the problems are fixable," says Schacht. "This is a matter of getting back to the basics." 

 Meanwhile Princeton-based residential communications services provider RCN is retrenching. The company, which has been aggressively expanding to meet its target of hooking up 15 million homes to its fiber optic network by 2008, has been chastened by Wall Street. From a February high of $78, RCN shares lost more than 90% of their value as investors soured on technology stocks in general. 

 RCN's response so far has been to put off plans to move into a new 1.5 million-square-foot international headquarters in Lawrenceville; to lay off some 70 employees in what is seen as the first of many such cutbacks; drop its pursuit of new markets for its broadband network expansion and instead consolidate existing markets; and reorganize its 7,000-strong staff to cut down on headquarters workers and increase the number working in the field. 

 "We still want to get to the 15 million [customers] opportunity," says David McCourt, CEO. "We will get there eventually; it will take us a while longer." 

 As he restructures, McCourt is also contending with stiff competition from other telecom companies. But he professes to be unfazed. "We have smart and able competitors," he says, adding, "I'd rather have two able and smart and well-financed competitors than 2,000 stupid competitors." 

 Falling margins and softer capital markets aren't affecting everyone the same way. Some companies, like Princeton's Internet telephony services provider ITXC, actually seem to gain when others struggle. "Reducing margins is not something we should be worrying about," says Mary Evslin, vice president of marketing and customer success. "That's something good for us." 

 ITXC's business model explains how. The company uses leased lines for access to some 200 cities across the world to carry Internet voice and data. It offers least-cost call-routing facilities to long-distance carriers such as an AT&T, who use them to complete the calls made by their customers (who may never know that part of their call to Turkey or Nepal went over the Internet). "So when the traditional carriers say they can't make any money on their long distance, they give it to us because we can," says Evslin. 

 Problems aren't confined to profit margins or access to capital markets, as Newark-based Verizon-New Jersey, the local Baby Bell, discovered last year. Parent company Verizon Communications (formed after last June's merger of Bell Atlantic and GTE Communications), started the year by offering longdistance phone service in the New York market in January and winning over more than I million customers in five months. 

 But Verizon-New Jersey stumbled as it tried to win approval to launch longdistance service in the state. The Board of Public Utilities will clear Verizon's application only if it is convinced the company has fully opened up the local calling market to unobstructed competition. Competitors like AT&T, along with the state Office of the Ratepayer Advocate, say that hasn't happened yet. The BPU has set a deadline of December 31 for these and other issues to be settled. 

Document bnnj000020010710dx120000d
 

 Look back to the future.(California wine industry in the past) 

 Al Cribari 
2,242 words
1 January 2001
Wines & Vines
WNVN
145
ISSN: 0043-583X; Volume 82; Issue 1
English
 Copyright 2001 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved. COPYRIGHT 2001 Hiaring Company 

 The lead article in the January, 1931 issue of The California Grower (now W&V) is a discussion of the arrival of the thousands of cars at the New York "juice grape market", which, as I recall, was actually in New Jersey across the Hudson River from mid-Manhattan. Of course, there were yards on the west side of lower Manhattan but I do not think that they could handle very much of the California grape crop. The author of this article--a Dr. Alonzo E. Taylor of Leland Stanford Jr. University--was illustrating the need for the "Standardization of Grapes", by which he meant the packages and carloads needed to be graded by quality, e.g. Calif. #1, Calif. #2, etc. He did his "research" by walking down a line of opened freight cars that were on the sidings, among the prospective buyers that were viewing the grapes displayed. He was dismayed by the sight. 

  The quality of the grapes (amount of mold and rot, color, maturity, and adherence to type), the fills of the lugs (some were overfilled and some under) and general overall appearance was very unappealing and differed greatly from a norm or average. One day it "had been announced to be exposed (sic) for sale 340 cars". Each shipper had to pay $5 per day for the use of the car and its refrigeration (demurrage). His comments were that until the packages were filled with high quality fruit and properly filled, prices would be all over the lot and it would be difficult to obtain top prices for top fruit. His aim was to get the shippers to send only such grapes that were graded according to a standard and to have said standards well policed. 

 Great idea and like children, the great idea was easy to conceive but hard to deliver. 

 California was suffering from a dearth of rain. Rainfall as measured from the first of July, was 25 to 50% of normal and the snowfall was even less. All this confirms Al Cribari's 11-year cycle theory. 

 "Looking Ahead." This was one of the editorials of the month and it was about the California Grape Control Board. This organization was about to announce its program for 1931. It seems that the raisin problems were somewhat under control but the fresh grape market was "a disaster" with no prospect for improvement within sight. 

 "Governor-Elect James Rolph, Jr." is on the cover of The California Grower (now W&V). Although of strictly parochial interest, Governor Rolph hit the national wire services when he condoned or even encouraged the San Jose lynching of the perpetrators involved in the kidnapping and murder of a prominent young businessman. 

 "Tokay Advertising Interested Consumers." I was quite surprised when I read this article as to how the Lodi growers were advertising their grapes so early in the century in some of the bigger dailies. Quite forward looking and apparently they were getting results. I have new respect for Lodi. 

 Not much else in this slim edition of The California Grower. Of course, the financial news kept getting worse until it reached bottom in late '32 when the new Roosevelt administration "primed the pump" with "massive" (for those days) federal aid and "alphabet" agencies. 

 Once again (1951) the pages of Wines & Vines were filled with "war talk". Being in the active reserves at that point in time, it was hard to believe that we were faced with another major conflict. But we were. So we had to begin again to adjust our thinking. The Federal Government would again be our partner in the wine and grape business as well as most other businesses. All to the delight of the old-time democrats. 

 For the time being, however, there was not much to do but prepare for active duty and adjust. 

 The editor was getting a bit upset about the retail package stores in New York who were "warning vintners that they will not allow wine markups to be 'hammered down to the disappearing point'." In a tight market, the markups on bottled goods tended to be shrunk. Remember Fair Trade laws were the usual thing. A 50% markup on wine was usual while on spirits 35% was common. Our editor feels that such is not fair and to accuse the vintners of being greedy is downright ridiculous. But if we consider the space on the retailer's shelf as being a "profit center", then I cannot see why the difference between the markup on wine vs. spirits is (or was) so unfair. A 50% markup on a 50[cts.] bottle of wine (which I am guessing was about the average cost to a retailer for a bottle of "every day" wine--the then staple of the industry) is 25[cts.], 35% markup on a $3 bottle of Old Brimstone is about $1. So the retailer is getting about four times as much for the space devoted to spirits as compared to wine. And we must remem ber that, under Fair Trade, the producer set the cost for the wholesaler, the retailer and the consumer, in most states, not to mention the more rigid formulae for the Control States. Anyway, the reason I bring this matter up in detail is to show that how an organization representing a particular group can react with a knee-jerk to the slightest adverse position. Here again the law of reason should be applied but with top executives not traveling to the common people it was often impossible for them to understand such things as the retail bottle shop owner's problems and concerns. Besides even the editor got the terms "profit", "mark-up" and "gross-profit" a bit mixed up. 

 "Supply-Demand Ratio by Harry A. Caddow secretary-manager Wine Institute." The is about the first year since WWII began (1939) that the industry did not have a big over or under supply of wine. "Dessert wines were selling at 85[cts.] per gallon... Red table wines were selling at 60[cts.] per gallon." For a while all was going well. Except for the bottlers--they were having a rough time. More so since they didn't know that their major business--dessert wines--was to take a slow decline in the not too far distant future. And they felt that they couldn't bottle table wines. 

 "Outlook for American Vermouth by Gino Gambarelli vice-president, Gambarelli & Davitto." G&D was a big brand in those days and we must remember that the sale of sweet vermouth in gallon jugs was big business in the large Eastern cites. But again, I must say that I never could understand the seemingly great interest in the press--particularly Wines & Vines--regarding this product. But it was good business and I had fun making it. Simple. Kitchen chemistry stuff! 

 "The men from Missouri." It was an article about Ambrose & Company of K.C., one of the major players in the wine bottling trade. They were an important outlet for Sox Setrakian and California Growers (now Golden State Vintners). I was always trying to get business from them without too much success. Don Seals was their general manager for all intents and purposes and a smart guy. 

 We sold about 12 million gallons of California wine in October of '50 and about a half million gallons of imported wines! How about those apples? 

 In days past, W&V printed a Technical Section. This was before the ASV printed all the papers presented. I was very enamored of the Technical Section. The year of 1950 was a particularly interesting session and I was very disappointed in not being able to attend. Especially when I read a list of the topics. Fortunately, I was able to read the papers I needed in W&V. Of particular interest (although more of intellectual and historic nature) was the paper by R.O. Neal and W.V. Cruess on "Comparative Effects of Casein, Gelatin and Bentonite Fining". My father insisted on only gelatin (plus tannin) clarification but my uncle (his younger brother, Tony) insisted upon gelatin fining after using Bentonite. After a year or so of experience, I used only Bentonite followed by chilling. But it was an interesting battle. 

 "Guild Reports to its Growers." According to general manager Howard Williams, 1950 sales increased 50% over 1949. This was during the "heydays" of co-ops. 

 Enrico Prati has resigned as vice president in charge of production of the Italian Swiss Colony. 

 "Peter L. Mirassou Dies." A pioneer wine grower of the Evergreen district in Santa Clara Valley, he was the father of Ed and Norbert of Mirassou vineyards. Never knew him. 

 "Leonard J. Duckworth has resigned from his position as production manager at Founraingrove Vineyard, effective February 28, 1951." 

 It was a heady year with prices and profits up yet dessert wines continued to be our big seller. 

 'Tis the brandy issue, this January 1971 edition of Wine & Vines. Once looked upon as a valuable and very profitable adjunct to the wine business, brandy has seemingly collapsed along with other "brown goods". And I guess "white brandy" never made it either. 

 In the Wise & Otherwise column, the old "mystery" of the high per capita consumption of Calif. brandy, in Wisconsin, was brought up again for analysis. I believe the best explanation lies within this W&O column: to wit: at the time of Repeal someone brought in a shipment of brandy that was so superior to all other distilled spirits that "it caused Wisconsin people to become confirmed brandy drinkers". So says Herb Zein of the Wisconsin Beverage Journal. I more or less believe this except I think it was during the war (WWII) that the superior brandy was brought in. I cannot think that there was any superior brandy left in California at the time of Repeal. However there was superior wine albeit in very small quantities. So who knows? 

 "As we go to press--Firm price commitments to growers for the 1970 grape crop" (selected varieties in dollars per ton) "in California were... Cabernet Sauvignon, $500 to $550; Napa Gamay, $275; Chardonnay $500; Colombard, $210 to $215; Burger, $170 and Golden Chasselas (Palomino), $150". Not bad. 

 "'Cold Ducklings' Offered." The Christian Brothers supplied Extra Cold Duck in tenths and splits (twentieths) in time for the holidays. Does Gallo still bottle Cold Duck? 

 "Jurgens Named to Handle Beringer Bros. For Nestle." H. Peter, former Almaden Vineyards' president who led that firm to a top position for mid-premium wines was appointed president and g.m. of Premium Wines, Inc., a Nestle subsidiary. As old-timers may remember, Jurgens had been an export manager for Lucky Lager beer in San Francisco. Lucky Lager had bought the old Cribari winery in Madrone, Santa Clara Co. about 1945, as I recall. 

 "R.T. French Buys All Of Widmer In New Expansion." The mustard company is owned by Rickirt & Colman Ltd. of England. This was the era of mindless annexing of unrelated business and so French tackled Widmers with lack of knowledge at all levels and in all ways. Result? Failure. What a shame. What took Will Widmer 50 years to build took French 5 years to destroy. 

 "Today's U.S. Brandy Grapes: Thompson, Tokay, Emperor. The principal California brandy grape is the Thompson... said Hans Warkentin, research director for Vie-Del at Fresno, Calif." I-fans was a wonderful man and a fine chemist and distiller and a valuable advisor to me. 

 "White Brandy? Why Not?" So says Louis Gomberg. But of course it never took off. 

 But other things were there to occupy our minds and energy and money. Business was good. 

 The January 1991 issue of W&V is devoted to "forecasts". How did they do? Well, as far as I could see: adequately. But then they were only predicting one year ahead. And of course, I am looking backward. 

 "Inglenook has introduced an 18-Liter Chardonnay in a box". John Daniel, are you rolling over? 

 "Cooks Champagne Cellars added American Spumante." 

 "Gallo rolls out a 1978 Private Reserve Cabernet at $20." Yes it was much better than Hearty Burgundy and for premium producers quite a bombshell, I would think. 

 P.E. Hiaring has a wonderful bit in his column Wise & Otherwise. It's about a pint of Rewco Rye whiskey bottled in '28. Of course, it had to be for medicinal purposes and the claims made, on the label (good for malaria, La Grippe, etc.), fill a full paragraph. Plus, it goes on to say, "externally, whiskey is used as an antiseptic for wounds, ulcers, etc." What is amusing is that many of the claims are somewhat valid and the Prohibition Dept. doubtlessly approved same. 

 As an aside, what is great about turning 80, is the fine wines I am receiving. Recently arrived was a package from Santo Ruboli of San Antonio Winery in L.A. among which was a truly wonderful Maddalena brand 1999 Monterey Pinot Grigio. What a pleasure it is to taste these great wines from these old wineries. Try it, I think you'll like it! I remember selling the Rubolis our (yep from our own vineyards) San Joaquin Carignane (burgundy) for, I think, 30[cts.] per gallon. 

FULL TEXT

Document wnvn000020010713dx1100004
 

 

 Israel stocks launch new year with declines. 

359 words
1 January 2001
15:12
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TEL AVIV, Jan 1 (Reuters) - Israeli shares started the new year with declines on Monday as the market looked dispiritedly on a domestic election and a languishing technology sector, traders said. 

 "There's no trade today, no Nasdaq and no Europe," said a trader at the Meitav Ltd consultancy, referring to the holiday close for markets abroad. 

 "We expect the market will continue to wane until the election, unless Nasdaq turns positive this month on expectations of a (U.S.) interest rate cut," the trader said. 

 Israelis will go to the polls on February 6 to elect a prime minister after current leader Ehud Barak resigned amid the worst Israeli-Palestinian violence in decades. 

 His challenger, leading Israeli hawk Ariel Sharon, is the favourite to win, according to opinion polls. 

 The three months of fighting has all but stilled peacemaking hopes and has investors concerned that a protracted struggle could embroil other countries in the Middle East. 

 The blue-chip Tel Aviv 25 index closed 0.9 percent lower at 501.51 points, while the broader TA-100 index fell 0.84 percent to 485.14 points. The technology Teltech index dipped 0.09 percent. 

 Volume was a paltry 181 million shekels compared with 307.9 million shekels on Sunday. 

 Technology holding companies led declines, including Clal Industries & Investments which lost 3.2 percent to 35.20 shekels, Koor Industries which slipped 1.5 percent to 251.80 shekels and Israel Corp which dipped 2.5 percent to 732 shekels. 

 So-called old economy stocks numbered among the few outperforming shares. Drugmaker Teva Pharmaceutical Industries rose 0.03 percent, while retail chains Super-Sol edged up 0.1 percent and Blue Square Stores advanced 0.4 percent. 

 Digital voice and data recording company Nice Systems recovered a fraction of its value after plunging nearly 70 percent in its last two sessions on a fourth quarter profit warning. 

 The stock gained 1.4 percent on Monday. 

 -Tel Aviv 100 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 100 index 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index 

 -Tel Aviv technology index 

 ($1 = 4.04 shekels). 

Document lba0000020010713dx1106sj3
 

 News 
 California high-tech faces energy threat -- Rate hikes, blackouts loom on the horizon 

 Laurie Sullivan 
1,320 words
1 January 2001
Electronic Buyers' News
EBUY
74
926
English
Copyright (c) 2001 CMP Media LLC

 Irvine, Calif. -- California's electronics industry is bracing for possible rolling electrical blackouts and rising energy costs as widespread overconsumption and calls for rate hikes from the state's two biggest public utilities set the stage for a prolonged energy crunch. 

 With power supplies barely outpacing usage, state officials have instituted policies that could cut power to users-including chip makers-with as little as a few hours notice. Though the planned outages would be only 50 to 90 minutes in duration, observers note that the situation could prove especially troublesome for semiconductor suppliers, which require a large source of uninterrupted power. 

 As the chip sector weighs its options, Southern California Edison and Pacific Gas & Electric are complaining that a price freeze implemented under the state's 1996 utilities deregulation is driving them to the brink of insolvency. The companies are calling for an immediate 30% rate hike and an increase of up to 76% over two years. A vote from the California Public Utilities Commission is expected on Thursday. 

 "Rolling blackouts in California during 2001 are more real than we'd like to think," said Dave Hawkins, manager of special projects engineering at Independent System Operator (ISO), a nonprofit arm of the state's energy commission. "But the energy crisis isn't just affecting California. Currently, the entire western part of the United States is somewhat deficient in power." 

 California once produced as much as 90% of the world's semiconductor output, but rising real estate and labor costs have forced many companies to build plants outside the region. 

 "Very little production takes place there now," said Will Strauss, an analyst at Forward Concepts Co., Tempe, Ariz., who estimated that less than 10% of worldwide chip manufacturing now occurs here. 

 A survey of several semiconductor suppliers with fabs in California yielded little alarm. Some said they would absorb a rate hike without raising prices, although industry observers predicted a different outcome in the event energy costs soar. 

 "If you go to any company and say we're going to double your electric bill, it has to have some effect on price," said Tom Smith, an analyst at Standard and Poor's Equity Group in New York. "But I don't think prices will go up enough to curb demand. Now, they really must be concerned with possible rolling blackouts." 

 Chip manufacturers will likely buy their way out of that problem, Smith added, beefing up private power supplies even as they adopt conservation measures. Indeed, most suppliers with fabs in California have already spent years complying with tightening energy policies governing electrical use. 

 Intel Corp. has a small fab at its headquarters in Santa Clara, Calif. Unlike many customers in Silicon Valley who rely on PG&E for service, however, the company has a contract with Silicon Valley Power, which is owned by the city of Santa Clara. 

 "Intel has a longstanding agreement with the power company," said Chuck Mulloy, an Intel spokesman. "To avoid rolling blackouts, Intel signed agreements with Silicon Valley Power about five years ago to voluntarily curtail usage during peak periods and when the state goes into various-stage power alerts." 

 In exchange, Mulloy said, Intel has been moved down the list for sites that would be included in rolling blackouts. 

 Conservation efforts are paying off in other ways, too. STMicroelectronics Inc. operates a fab in Rancho Bernardo, Calif. The facility draws just 4 megawatts of electricity at any given moment, allowing ST to maintain average power consumption of about 90 kilowatts per silicon wafer-down from 627 kW in 1994. ST's ability to slash its electrical use has led it to build a second fab near the site that is expected to come on line this year, according to the company. 

 ST is also considering the use of alternative energy sources, like the 20-kW rooftop solar plant that was installed at the company's Phoenix fab last October. 

 Still, California's energy reserves are in a precarious enough state to keep Joe Hess, safety and environmental manager for ST's Rancho Bernardo fab, standing vigil on the ISO's Web site. The non-profit organization, which was created following the utilities deregulation, issues alerts each morning warning customers if a blackout is coming their way. 

 The three-stage alert is triggered when consumption comes to within 7% of energy capacity, according to the state energy commission. A Stage 2 alert is issued if consumption breaks the 5% threshold, and a Stage 1 blackout alert is issued if consumption comes to within 1.5% of capacity. 

 Such warnings conjure up images of the energy problems that for years have plagued Taiwan's semiconductor manufacturers. Some suppliers, such as United Microelectronics Corp. in Hsinchu, have built their own power plants alongside their fabs, while others have backup generators that allow them to power down production lines in an emergency. 

 Like many of its rivals, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. Ltd., also of Hsinchu, has experienced several power outages in the last few years. The chip foundry has developed various methods for handling such emergencies, ranging from short-term power supplies that enable it to bring the fab down without losing product, to full-scale generators that allow it to operate at capacity for up to two days. 

 TSMC had the opportunity to put its backup plan into play as recently as last week, when a transformer operated by Macronix International Co. Ltd. overheated, causing a fire that cut power to parts of the Hsinchu Science-based Industrial Park. 

 "We have emergency backup systems in all of our fabs," said Dan Holden, a spokesperson for TSMC North America in San Jose. "We've had discussions with the Taiwanese government and Taiwan Power Co. to ensure the power grid in Taiwan continues to support our infrastructure, even during outages." 

 Planned outages may become a reality in California, which is served by five aging power plants. The state declared a low-level emergency Dec. 7, putting residents on alert that rolling blackouts could follow. On Dec. 13, the shortage became so severe that U.S. Energy Secretary Bill Richardson threatened to apply federal price controls to out-of-state power producers if they didn't increase the flow of energy to the state. 

 While those companies with fabs in the state are looking for ways to fill their energy needs, an unchecked shortage is likely to force new growth into other states and overseas, according to Jim Savage, an analyst at Thomas Weisel Partners LLC, New York. 

 "It's a very dangerous situation," Savage said. "You have rolling blackouts that hit San Jose, and if a fab goes down and doesn't have adequate backup power, then clearly that's a real issue in terms of lost wafers." 

 Savage anticipates other states are unlikely to follow California's lead in deregulating their utilities, based on the fact that the cost-cutting strategy has backfired on legislators. Between January and August of last year, wholesale electricity prices in the state rose from an average of 3 cents/kW hr.-approximately enough to run a modem and computer for seven hours-to 18 cents. 

 What's more, companies cannot assess the extent of an energy shortfall the way they might gauge water levels in a reservoir, according to Patrick Dorinson, director of communications for the ISO. 

 "People don't think it's a crisis yet," Dorinson said. "Californians can burn their lights and think the ISO is just crying wolf, because it's not reflected in their electricity bill. Edison is talking about going bankrupt and the customer hasn't had to pay the cost. Once the rate freeze ends, the utility companies can pass that cost on to the consumer." 

 Additional reporting by Jeanne Graham 

http://www.ebnonline.com/

 January 01, 2001 

Document ebuy000020010711dx1100001
 

 

 US faces recession but Europe may see a 'golden decade'. 

1,815 words
1 January 2001
The Financial News
LONFIN
English
(c) 2001 London Financial News Publishing Limited . Data not available for redissemination.

 Margareta Pagano takes a look at predictions for the health of the financial industry 

 This is the year that Europe and the Europeans should come of age. Forget the new economy and the chill wind from the US, bankers and traders are looking to Europe and the old economy companies for their mammon. 

 After last year's asset inflation, as the technology bubble reached its apogee in March, the markets turned into something of a downer in most sectors over the second half. Over the past few weeks, many of the world's top indices have tumbled and there has been more pain for investors in technology and internet stores. Germany's Neuer Markt for growth companies is 70% off its peak and down by more than half over the year. 

 Over the following pages, our specialist writers review the year's most important developments in the financial industry, and the outlook for 2001. 

 Although the news has been gloomy, bankers around the world report that among Europe's industrial leaders and chief executives there is a real sense of self-assurance and determination to finally get to grips with restructuring and reforms, from industry to pensions. Economists on this side of the pond are beginning to predict a golden decade for the Continent, one that is more likely to be achieved by entrepreneurial businessmen than by politicking politicians. 

 More deals, such as that carried out by Jean-Marie Messier at Vivendi, Thomas Middelhoff of Bertlesmann with his bid for EMI, and Vodafone's takeover of Mannesmann, are set to happen. Only a few weeks ago, Bayer, the giant German engineering giant, disclosed that it is now ready to start unbundling. 

 Paul Roy, head of global equities for Merrill Lynch, says: "Europe is looking very healthy and there are many deals in the pipeline waiting to be done. Many IPOs have been postponed, but the good news is that if the markets become more confident it will be only a matter of time before they go. We have seen a huge increase in cross-border investment by fund managers in Europe and this is likely to improve again this year." 

 Roy adds that the old economy companies are looking the best. "The old economy is coming back. One of the biggest IPOs of the last quarter was Interbrew, the world's second largest brewer, and it is still trading above its issue price. I have always said that at the end of the day the old economy companies who integrate and adapt internet technology will prove to be the winners." 

 Much will still depend, he says, on the confidence of the markets. Merrill Lynch is cautious about the outlook in the US for the first quarter but expects cuts in interest rates to help ease the pressure of lower corporate earnings and spending. "Whether the US is heading for a soft or hard landing is still anyone's guess, although I do think it will be soft if the Fed acts to loosen rates," says Roy. 

 But the omens are bleak for the US. Almost all the main indices are down month on month, year on year. The Dow Jones ended the year down 6%. Nasdaq was 38% down and 50% off its peak last March. 

 Profits have been downgraded at Hewlett Packard and IBM, and Microsoft has warned that profits will fall this year. Chase and JP Morgan have issued a profit warning, and Morgan Stanley reported a slump in fourth-quarter earnings. Forecasts for company profits in the US and Europe are that earnings will be sluggish. 

 Investors in technology and internet stocks are nursing huge losses, down 50% and, in some cases, down 90% on the year. Companies that have borrowed to expand into the technology and telecoms sectors are hurriedly cutting back. Liquidity is drying up and the huge inflow of funds that financed Wall Street's boom is slowing down. 

 All the signs are that President Bush may be facing an economic recession that may prove to be one that will test even the famous "constructive ambiguity" skills of Federal Reserve Governor Alan Greenspan. This slowdown is going to be difficult to handle because of the vast US current account deficit that cannot be dealt with simply by cutting taxes and lowering interest rates. 

 Chris Carter, global strategist at Investec Asset Management, predicts a rougher landing for the US economy than most. But he does not believe it will be an extended recession because global inflation is well enough contained and the Fed should be savvy enough to deal with it by cutting rates. 

 Carter says that equity markets will have a tough time coming to terms with 2001. Investec reckons that corporate earnings growth forecasts of 9% in the US, 10% in the UK and 15% in the Europe are far too high. Interest rates in the UK are likely to come lower, and the UK market is the one where assets look undervalued. Within equity markets the telecoms, media and technology (TMT) sector, he says, has moved back to more normal valuation levels but the stocks are still by no means cheap. He predicts that defensive sectors may become almost irrationally sought after as 2001 unfolds. 

 Indeed, European countries are forecast to shine this year. Growth across Euroland is expected to be as much as 3.6% this year, compared with revised forecasts for the US, which predict that it is likely to slow down from last year's 5.4% to around 3%. 

 Peter Meinerzhagen, chairman of ABN Amro Hoare Govett, the leading corporate broker, is sanguine over prospects for Europe. "Deal flow is still substantial. There is masses and masses of activity across the sectors, particularly among the old economy companies. The weak have got weaker and the strong have become stronger. But the question in the first half is whether the deals can be done." 

 Meinerzhagen adds: "It's all down to the state of the markets. I don't expect a big crash but the returns from stocks will not be as high as investors have been used to. There will be as much to be made from cash, apart from the obvious selective stocks. I am anticipating lower interest rates next year, but I'm not prepared to look further than the first quarter. 

 "But for the internet and technology stocks, I don't think the pain is over yet. We will see further rationalisations and closures of new economy stocks, and then I expect that the good ones will emerge by the middle of the year." 

 He says that Europe looks particularly good, better than markets elsewhere and as good as anywhere in the world. The media, financial and old economy stocks will be the movers. "Germany has to be an area of real activity and it can only be a question of when we see real corporate deals taking place. Allianz is bound to make a move." 

 He adds that US firms were net investors in European stock markets last year and this trend is likely to continue. But they look set to continue their grip on European corporate activity following the extraordinary expansion in their continental operations over the past few years. 

 Although credit investment underperformed during 2000, it has established itself as a fundamental part of European fund managers investment portfolios. So the European bond market is expected to continue to grow in 2001. 

 David Verey, chairman of Lazard in London, echoes the optimism over deal flow in Europe. "Business is looking good. We have deals in the pipeline for the first quarter. We expect real activity in the Spanish and Italian markets and, of course, the German market where the financial industry could attempt again to restructure." 

 Simon Robertson, managing director of Goldman Sachs International, also anticipates buoyant M&A activity in Europe. "There are many companies, particularly old economy ones, that want to restructure. We are seeing many companies on the Continent who have been waiting for the right conditions. What we need is for the market to stabilise and then we will have a very busy year," says Robertson. "Sectors such as media and financial should be lively." 

 Goldman and Morgan Stanley are likely to continue dominating the European M&A scene. Last year they were involved in nearly half of the $853bn (E972bn) worth of deals that took place in Europe, but their market share will be crucial if there should be any downturn in activity. 

 Goldman took the lead, working on 92 deals worth $350m - more than half the amount that it handled worldwide. Morgan was a close second with $278bn. In third place was Credit Suisse First Boston with $231bn and then, after a sharp drop, came UBS Warburg with $152bn and Lazard which advised on $144bn. 

 However, most Europeans houses such as UBS Warburg are expected to continue the growth witnessed last year. UBS, in particular, had an excellent year, advising Vodafone on Mannesmann, and more recently on its deal with Japan Telecom. 

 Philip Augar, former head of securities at Schroders and author of The Death of Gentlemanly Capitalism: the rise and fall of London's investment banks, says that his worst fears for US domination may yet be shown to be true. In his book he argues that the ownership of British banks by the Americans is inherently dangerous because they will just contract in a downturn. 

 "The Americans will continue to use London as the hub of their activities in Europe, but if there is any sign of slowdown in their domestic business they can trim back here in Europe," he says. "That's the problem with the Wimbledonisation argument." 

 Augar expects the trend of banks buying banks to continue apace. "I believe that the consolidation towards bigger universal banks will continue. Banks that want to supply companies with soup to nuts will have to continue getting stronger and stronger in order to outwit each other." 

 Merrill Lynch's Roy agrees that size matters to the corporate client. "I believe clients do want the one-stop bank. They need to know that we can deliver them distribution in share offerings, research, capital and liquidity. But there is absolutely no reason why we cannot also give the creative solutions and independent advice as well. Look at the deal we did last year with Hutchison Whampoa and Vodafone. In this we wrote a cheque for $3.5bn for the bought deal and brought them the idea. That's what we can deliver." 

 But Roy disagrees that the US houses will cut back in Europe. "The expansion has been great over the last few years and I expect this to continue. Our business base is now as powerful in Europe as it is in the US. We are here to stay." 

Document lonfin0020010713dx110002i
 

 Beyond the basics:  How to deal with troubled loans on special purpose real estate assets with operating businesses 

 James R Jr Butler; Neil C Erickson; Robert B Kaplan; Richard A Rogan 
6,647 words
1 January 2001
Real Estate Issues
RET
48-57
Volume 26, Issue 4; ISSN: 0146-0595
English
 Copyright (c) 2001 ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights reserved. Copyright American Society of Real Estate Counselors Winter 2001/2002 

 Hotels, Casinos, Entertainment Parks, Senior Living Facilities, Franchised Gasoline Stations, Convenience Stores & Restaurants 

 THE PIPELINE BEGINS TO FILL 

 After unprecedented years of economic expansion, our teetering economy was shoved rudely toward recession by the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. In the immediate aftermath, more than 100,000 people were laid off by the airlines and travel was down by more than a third. The travel, tourism, and lodging industries were hardest hit. One respected national firm predicted the worst performance for the hotel industry in 33 years. Most hotel stocks lost between 20 percent and 70 percent of their value in the first week of trading after the attack. Many hotels and restaurants watched their business fall by 40 percent or 50 percent. Conventions, meetings, and vacations were canceled or postponed. 

 Another major national hotel consulting firm agreed that recent declines in the revenue per available room, a common measure of hotel profitability, showed the biggest drop in the 80 years the firm has been tracking the industry. It also analyzed the financial statements of more than 3,300 hotel financial statements in its database and in late 2001, the firm predicted that the number of hotels unable to generate sufficient cash to meet debt service would rise from 16.4 percent in 2000, to 20.9 percent in 2001, and to an astounding 36.5 percent in 2002. 

 Prior to the events of that fateful September, many lenders' pipelines were starting to see a flow of troubled real estate loans-particularly those loans secured by hotels, casinos, entertainment parks, senior living facilities, franchised gasoline stations, convenience stores, restaurants, and other special purpose real estate associated with operating businesses. Now the pipelines are starting to fill with such loans gone sour. 

 This article will provide a brief reminder to lenders about the basics of working with troubled loans, and then it will quickly go beyond those fundamentals to discuss some of the unique issues and problems encountered in dealing with troubled loans on special purpose real estate assets with operating businesses. 

 QUICK REVIEW: BASIC DO's-AND-DON'Ts OF WORKING WITH TROUBLED LOANS 

 The 1980s and 1990s saw an explosion of troubled real estate loans and specialized lender teams to handle them. The ensuing years saw veteran workout teams clean up the mess and ultimately disband, as troubled loans all but disappeared. While each lender tended to have its own name and acronym for the troubled loan department, most lenders recognized the need for a special assets group or "SAG" to handle the problems presented by troubled loans., Savvy lenders also realized that workouts take time, and that line officers who spend time on workouts can't spend that time generating new deals. 

 These lenders focused on prevention, monitoring, and early detection. At the first signs of trouble, they brought the SAG into the picture or transferred responsibility to the SAG. They recognized that information is powerful and constantly updated critical information about the loan, the collateral, and the borrower. They analyzed their options in light of clearly defined goals and policies. They developed a game plan for each asset and they stuck to it. And having been burned by lender liability claims, they used pre-workout agreements and team members knowledgeable about lender liability matters. They also knew that complete documentation of any deal was essential. We have summarized these fundamentals in the "Basic Do'sand-Don'ts" set forth in Appendix 1. 

 WHAT MAKES SOME SPECIAL PURPOSE ASSETS DIFFERENT? 

 Special purpose real estate assets associated with operating businesses present unique problems. The pipelines of lenders and special servicers are filling with troubled loans secured by such hotels, casinos, entertainment parks, senior living facilities,franchised gasolinestations,convenience stores,restaurants, and the like. Each of these assets involves an operating business that is integrally intertwined with special purpose real estate, and that operating business comprises a large component of the asset's value. 

 It is the operating business that raises some thorny problems. The operating business often needs management and franchise affiliations, licenses and permits, extensive vendor relationships, marketing efforts, and a significant work force. Many of these aspects of the operating business are critical to the value and success of the asset and the recovery to be realized. They can evaporate very quickly during the handling of the troubled loan. 

 For example, what is the value of a Marriott, Holiday Inn, Hilton, Hyatt, or Four Seasons if it loses the brand and professional management? It becomes just a big box hotel with no name, no reservation system, and no professionally run staff. What impact does it have on the lender's collateral if breach of a management or franchise agreement exposes the owner to the expected profit of the brand or operator for a remaining 20- or 30-year term, or more? What damage is done to the public image of the asset if quality is not maintained, rumors of bankruptcy taint expectations of service, inventories fall below acceptable levels, and relations with critical vendors are damaged? 

 Or, to use another common example of loans secured by gasoline stations with franchised restaurants and convenience stores, it may be easy enough to renegotiate gasoline supply agreements, but what is the value of a Burger King or Del Taco restaurant that loses its franchise, jeopardizes its ground lease, and faces default under its franchise agreement and other contracts? 

 USING A HOTEL EXAMPLE 

 Many lenders and servicers are unfamiliar with the business and legal "structure" of these special assets, so we will first use a hotel example to illustrate the franchise and management overlay that complicates working with many of these assets. The typical hotel is owned by an individual, institutional investor, or investor group, and this owner is usually the borrower on the hotel loans. Complications grow geometrically when the operator also has a joint venture or other investment interest in the ownership, and such arrangements are common with many hotels. The hotel company-Marriott, Starwood, Hilton, Hyatt, or whatever-is a separate entity that will manage or franchise the owner's hotel. 

 When you drive by a hotel and see a big red Marriott sign on top, the chances are great that an owner has entered into a franchise or management agreement with Marriott to brand the hotel and plug into Marriott's reservation system and expertise. But it is fairly unlikely that Marriott owns the property or a significant interest in it. In many instances, the hotel is managed by the branded hotel company, but often the hotel will have a franchise from Marriott or one of the other branded hotel companies, and an independent management company-unaffiliated with the brand-will manage the hotel under a separate arrangement. 

 In the jargon of the hotel industry, these independent management companies are often called independents or "third party managers" because they do not own a brand and are a third party to the owner-franchisor-operator relationship. In any event, these arrangements are governed by complex and critically important franchise agreements and management agreements that can add or subtract millions to the value of the hotel.1 

 Depending upon the nature of the property, there are also likely to be a host of important agreements, licenses, and permits. Resort properties often have "use agreements" or leases that provide access to hotel guests for golf, tennis, marina, spa, or other facilities. Licenses may include cabaret and business licenses, liquor licenses, and many other permits such as FCC licenses for base-to-shuttle or sl-dp-to-shore communications for shuttle buses, marinas, and similar operations. The ability of a foreclosing lender or buyer to continue to enjoy rights under these agreements and licenses can be critical. One can imagine the impact on value when a resort hotel loses its golf, tennis, beach club, and other amenities, or can't serve liquor at large group meetings, banquets, weddings, and events. And, of course, it is almost certain that there will be a significant work force that may be technically employed by either the owner or the operator, but for which the owner will have full legal responsibility and extensive indemnity obligations. There may even be union contracts and potential labor claims and liabilities. 

 The lender's choice of options in dealing with a troubled loan on a hotel is complicated by the typical hotel management or franchise agreement. It tends to give tremendous control and many exclusive rights and powers to the operator and franchisor. The owner's (and thus the lender's) access to information, the work force, and the asset itself may be greatly limited. It is also common for the lender's position on the loan to be subordinated to the hotel management and franchise agreements so that upon a foreclosure, the lender or its successor will continue to be bound by the old management or franchise agreement. Alternatively, and sometimes worse, the lender may lose the benefit of the franchise or management agreement and find itself with an unbranded and unmanaged asset. 

 THE PRACTICAL IMPACT: SPECIAL PURPOSE ASSETS MEAN SPECIAL PROBLEMS 

 All the basics of troubled loans summarized in Appendix 1 still apply to the special purpose assets we are focusing on. One need only add the overlay that the operating business creates. Without repeating the basic principles, we can continue using the example of a troubled hotel loan and focus on what is different, beginning with the first principleprevention. 

 Prevention 

 Initial underwriting includes focus on brand, operator, terms of management and franchise agreements and borrower's track record. It also requires a market analysis and use of consultants and counsel experienced in hospitality matters, because the hospitality industry has its own unique standards, norms, customs, and players. Lenders should use professionals familiar with the industry who can apply a checklist approach to hospitality financing, like the Hospitality Investment Task List or HIT List developed by the authors' firm and published by the Educational Institute.2 

 With hotel loans, there are at least four categories of issues that lenders don't usually encounter with traditional real estate loans such as those on their office buildings or apartment houses. These special issues should all be addressed in the prevention stage and considered as a loan gets into trouble. They include: 

 1. Subordination and SNDA. Subordination agreements and SNDAs will be addressed in depth later, but many prudent lenders will require the subordination of management and franchise agreements so that in the event of a default, the lender or its successor will have the option to either reaffirm and continue the arrangement under an automatically approved assignment, or the right to terminate the arrangement if it wishes to do so. In many cases, a management agreement can add or subtract up to 25 percent of the value of a hotel. 

 2. "Rents vs. accounts." Hotel revenues are not the same as "rents" from other kinds of commercial real estate. As a result, a lender's security interests in the revenues of a hotel are perfected differently (requiring both a deed of trust along with a security agreement and a UCC-1 adequately describing the collateral revenue source). Hotel revenues are also subject to different treatment in bankruptcy than rents from traditional real estate, but we will talk about these issues shortly under the so-called "rents vs. accounts" topic on page 54. 

 3. Need for access to more information. Because hotels and other special assets have operating businesses, there is a vast amount of information that can and should be provided by the operator on a monthly or other regular basis that will greatly assist a lender in monitoring developments with the asset events that may happen months before the effect is seen on the income statement or balance sheet. The prudent lender will assure access to such vital information, and may provide that a default occurs if there is deterioration in certain operations or procedures reflected in such reports. 

 4. Lender liability. There is a much better balance today than 10 or 15 years ago between the lenders' needs to protect their collateral and realize its value and aggrieved borrowers to obtain redress for excesses and abuses of overzealous lenders. But lender liability should still be a significant concern or focus for the careful lender, and these concerns are likely to be aggravated by dealing with a more active operating business such as a hotel than a passive real estate asset like an office building. Binding arbitration and jury trial waivers continue to be important elements in the lender's defensive arsenal. 

 Early Warning Signs 

 For the same reason a lender needs access to information, it needs an excellent early warning system. In addition to obvious items such as a default under a franchise agreement or material contract, knowledgeable industry people are likely to know or be able to detect when a geographic area, market segment or particular hotel is getting into trouble-long before it shows up in the profit and loss statement. A decrease in inventories, failure to maintain the property, a cutback in marketing, and / or other changes in the annual, budget, or marketing plans may all be early warning signs. Many prudent lenders have consultants watch their asset portfolios for significant trends and changes that indicate problems. The SAG team should become involved early in the process. But special assets generally also require availability and advice from industry-savvy consultants and counsel. 

 Information Update 

 The concept of updating all information for special assets is the same as for any troubled assets. However, in the case of a hotel, one will typically look for items such as hotel franchise agreements and amendments, management agreements and amendments, any agreements, leases, and other arrangements with golf pros, concessionaires, and the like, recreational use agreements for golf, tennis, aquatics, equestrian, or other amenities, and tax information and returns including occupancy, sales and use, employment, personal property, and real property taxes. A checklist approach is helpful. 

 Comprehensive Situation Analysis and Selection of Alternatives 

 What is the value of the asset and how do you optimize it?-The comprehensive "situation analysis" is the cooperative effort by the lender's SAG team, experienced hospitality lawyers, and hotel consultants. It examines the business, legal and hotel-specific factors affecting the asset-the complexities captured by the following update of what many know as Baltin's Law: 

 "Each hotel or other special purpose asset is a unique combination of physical plant, available market, location, brand identification, management, contractual arrangements, and capitalization. The mix of these factors is different for each asset, and therefore the value of a hotel or other special purpose asset will be optimized by implementing intelligent, property-specific plans, and management for both the asset's business and real estate."3 

 In other words, to understand the value, potential, and problems with the hotel, one has to look at all these factors affecting the hotel real estate and business. 

 In the physical plant assessment, one should look at the intrinsic value of the building, as well as how it enhances or limits operations, rebranding opportunities, and marketing alternatives. One has to look at inventories, FF&E, and a host of systems for food and beverage, labor management, reservations, marketing, and other operations. The market and the property will each affect the other and upside potential. Is this property properly positioned? Would value be optimized by taking it upscale or downscale? Are product improvement plans (PIPS) warranted to maintain a certain franchise? What capital improvements are necessary or valuable? 

 Is the current brand or management right for this property? Can it be changed and what will it cost to change, both in terms of exit fees or damages and in terms of rebranding or repositioning? Who is a logical and optimal buyer of the property through foreclosure, a deed-in-lieu, or bankruptcy? Can the universe of buyers be expanded and improved? In short, what is the highest and best use for this property and what are the costs and limitations on positioning the property for such use? 

 What are the contractual and business constraints?-If the Situation Analysis is to be more than an intellectual exercise if it is to have practical value it must consider the web of complex agreements affecting the property the franchise, management, amenity and use agreements, leases, licenses, and the like. Management or franchise agreements tend to be very long term agreements (say 10 to 50 years) and often have limited or even no termination rights. They are usually not assignable by the borrower without consent, and transfers to "competitors" are frequently prohibited, although there are usually exceptions for transfers upon foreclosure or deed-in-lieu. 

 The SNDA-The lender's rights are often vitally affected by the terms of a subordination agreement or a common variation called the SNDA4 which the owner, lender, and operator may have executed. Such agreements typically provide comfort to lenders that, upon a foreclosure, deed-in-lieu, or sale in bankruptcy, the lender or its successor in interest will continue to enjoy the benefits of the management agreement. 

 This may be of great value in some circumstances. However, as many surprised lenders learned in the last downturn of the early 1990s, approximately 80 percent of the buyers for properties selling for $10 million or more were either other hotel companies or joint ventures of capital sources and hotel companies. In either event, these buyers would only purchase assets they could brand and manage, so the ability to terminate existing management and franchise agreements could make the asset attractive to a larger universe of buyers and could add tens of millions of dollars to the hotel's value. 

 But the typical SNDA contractually obligates the lender to the terms of the management agreement, by providing that if the lender or anyone succeeding to the property by foreclosure, deed-inlieu, or otherwise ever comes into possession of the hotel, the lender or its successor shall immediately be bound by the original agreement. Alternatively, they are obligated to execute a new agreement on identical terms to the original for the remaining term of the original agreement. The lender faces liability for breach of contract if it does not fulfill its obligations and ensure that successors are similarly bound. 

 While this would seem to suggest that long-- term, no cut management contracts and franchise agreements cannot ever be terminated, the use of a court-appointed receiver will generally not constitute a breach of an SNDA by the lender, and certain sales pursuant to a plan of bankruptcy will also likely avoid breach of a lender's obligations under even the most stringent SNDA. Long-term management agreements will generally be viewed as executory contracts that can generally be rejected in bankruptcy, and the operator then becomes an unsecured creditor in the bankruptcy to the extent of damages sustained for rejection of the contract. Thus, where the lender is properly secured and there is no equity, the rejected operator will take nothing for its damages. 

 "Rents vs. Accounts"-This issue here normally comes up when a hotel goes into bankruptcy. The Bankruptcy Code looks to state law for the characterization of the property and how a security interest is created and perfected. For example, you generally create and perfect an interest in real property with a mortgage or deed of trust and an assignment of rents which you record in the appropriate office, but you create and perfect an interest in personal property with a security agreement and a UCC-1 that is filed appropriately. And as lenders to operating businesses know, the filing of a bankruptcy petition cuts off even a perfected security interest in future earnings of a bankrupt business (though leaving it in place as to pre-petition receivables and inventory), but a perfected security interest in real property survives the bankruptcy petition filing. Thus it is critical to know whether your collateral is viewed as a real property interest or a personal property interest. This characterization will affect both how you create and perfect your security interest-or whether you have a perfected interest-and it will also determine whether your security interest terminates upon the filing of bankruptcy as to post-petition revenues. 

 As an example, say one has an office building and a hotel. Both structures and the underlying land are real property. And the security interest in the real estate is perfected by the recording of the mortgage or deed of trust and assignment of rents. But what is the revenue that is derived by the owner from each of these pieces of real estate? Rents? 

 It has not always been so, at least according to the courts, and even now it is not always so. Normally the revenue derived from an office building or an apartment house under leases will be treated as "rents." But one doesn't sign a lease on checking into a hotel, and, in addition to providing a room, the hotel may provide a number of services including food and beverage, telephone, parking, laundry, in-room movies, banquet facilities, golf or tennis, spa treatments, maid service, and so on. Are payments the hotel collects for the use of the room and these services really "rents" or something else? 

 At least one court in a case called Drake Hotel Associates5 said the payments were "rents." Realizing that it was one of the few courts to take that position, the judge said that he did not care about the overwhelming number of cases to the contrary. He felt that the common-sense meaning of "rents" should characterize revenues derived from use of a hotel and its facilities. Unfortunately, there were many more cases representing the other view generally characterized by the Northview case6 that held revenues from hotel rooms and these other activities were not "rents." Instead, they were some form of intangible personal property in the nature of "accounts" or receivables. 

 What does that mean to a lender? If the loan is secured with a typical mortgage and assignment of rents, this would create a valid security interest in the real estate under either line of cases. But the lender also wants to control the income or cash flow from the property. That is what the cash collateral battles are all about while seeking relief from a bankruptcy stay or working on a plan for disposition of the hotel. And that is where the difference is. 

 Under the Northview approach, unless one had a security agreement with an appropriate description of the revenues from the hotel and a properly filed UCC-1, the security interest in the revenues would not be validly created and perfected. The typical assignment of rents in a mortgage would not be adequate. So when the hotel goes into bankruptcy, the security interest is not perfected in either the pre-petition or post-petition income from the hotel. 

 And if even if the lender did use a good security agreement and UCC-1, under the Northview approach, the security interest is cut off by the filing of the bankruptcy petition in post-petition revenues. Only under the Drake Associates approach does the security interest survive the filing of the bankruptcy petition as to post-petition revenues. 

 Although this appears to be a fairly grim scenario for lenders, things were improved a little when the Bankruptcy Code was amended in 1994. There was a specific provision added to treat room revenues like rents. The provision was amended to include "fees, charges, accounts, or other payments for the use or occupancy of rooms and other public facilities in hotels, motels, or other lodging properties . . . except to any extent that the court, after notice and a hearing and based on the equities of the case, orders otherwise."7 

 Unfortunately, in a full-service hotel or resort, revenues from other sources-banquet, food and beverage, telephones, and the like-can easily constitute more than 60 percent of the total income from the hotel. Those items of income do not come from room revenues and would appear to still be subject to the old "rents vs. accounts" or "Drake vs. Northview" dichotomy. Undoubtedly, there will be a great deal of litigation in the bankruptcy courts in the next industry downturn to determine what the amendment to the Bankruptcy Code means. 

 Evaluating the Options 

 From the lender's perspective there are several options or alternative courses of action on a troubled asset. It can do nothing of course, or it can pursue a strategy that is directed toward one or more of the following: 

 * Workout 

 * Receiver 

 * Deed-in-lieu of foreclosure 

 * Foreclosure 

 * Bankruptcy 

 The workout typically leaves the borrower in possession or physical control of the asset, and the other alternatives all seek to move that control to someone else-a receiver, the lender, a buyer of the property, or a bankruptcy trustee. 

 KEY TO EVALUATING ALTERNATIVES: "BUTLER'S MATRIX" 

 The situation analysis should have considered all the relevant factors concerning the borrower, the hotel and their related considerations. Now it is time to consider these in light of the lender's goals and the available alternatives. Given the complexities of the typical special asset, it is sometimes helpful to boil it down to a summary form that may over-simplify, but at least provides a grid or framework for analysis. 

 One of this article's authors, Jim Butler, developed an analytical tool in the last great real estate and hotel downturn in the late 1980s that has come to be known as "Butler's Matrix" (see Table 1). 

 In applying Butler's Matrix, no single factor or group of factors is necessarily determinative, although a single factor could be. The lack of a critical mass of motivations on one side or the other will normally suggest that the lender will want to take possession by foreclosure or deed-in-lieu of foreclosure or at least displace the borrower from possession through use of a receiver. 

 For example, in the absence of other controlling considerations, inadequate collateral value for the debt, defective documentation, a good borrower, a strong management company, and a weak market would all suggest a workout instead of the possessory alternatives. However, if the property is severely damaged by a hurricane or other disaster, that factor alone might outweigh all the others and swing the evaluation in favor of one of the other "possessory" alternatives. 

 SAG - PROFIT CENTER FOR THE 21ST CENTURY 

 How the SAG is run can make a critical difference. Utilizing the SAG as a profit center can make a difference in amounts recovered and how the bank is protected from lender liability claims. The bank can position itself to make a bigger impact on its profitability, more so than the commercial loan originations. In recognition of that, senior management should be given prompt access to decisionmakers and other resources, including hotel lawyers and consultants. 

 by James R. Butler, Jr., Neil C. Erickson, Robert B. Kaplan & Richard A. Rogan 

 ABOUT THE AUTHORS 

 James R. Butler, Jr., Neil C. Erickson, Robert B. Kaplan, and Richard A. Rogan are partners with Jeffer, Mangels, Butler & Marmaro LLP, a full-service business law firm. All of the authors have extensive experience with troubled loans involving both traditional real estate loans and those involving the special assets described in the article. 

 Butler and Erickson are based in the firm's Los Angeles office where Butler leads the Global Hospitality Group and chairs the real estate department, and Erickson is a senior member of the litigation department, with extensive work on receiverships, financial institution and commercial 

 litigation. (E-mails: jbutler@jmbm.com; nerickson@jmbm. com) 

 Kaplan and Rogan work in the firm's San Francisco office and focus their practice on representing lenders in all aspects of lending, collection, and insolvency. (E-mails: rkaplan@jmbm.com; rrogan@jmbm.com) 

 Footnotes: 

 1. The terms of a hotel management agreement can easily add or subtract 25 percent or more to or from the value of a hotel. 

 2. James R. Butler, Jr., Co-Author, Chapter 14 "Special Legal Considerations for Hotel Investors," Hotel Investments Issues & Perspectives (2nd Ed. 1999), Educational Institute, American Hotel & Motel Association. 

 3. Baltin's Law was formulated by Bruce Baltin, Senior Vice President of PKF Consulting in Los Angeles, California. Mr. Baltin has more than 30 years of hotel experience. 

 4. The SNDA is the acronym for Subordination, Non-Disturbance and Attornment agreement, which is usually a three party agreement involving the owner, the operator and the lender of the hotel. Such agreements typically provide comfort to lenders that upon a foreclosure, deed-in-lieu or sale in bankruptcy that the lender or its successor in interest will continue to enjoy the benefits of the management agreement. This may be of great value in some circumstances. However, many such agreements also limit the lender's or successors' options in purporting to bind them to the terms of the agreement whether they want it or not. This poses many interesting issues where the lender or a successor want to remove or terminate a brand or operator. 

 5. In re S.F. Drake Hotel Associates, 131 B.R. 156 (Bankr. N.D.Cal. 1991) (minority view holding that hotel room revenues are .rents"). 

 6. In re Northview Corporation, 130 B.R. 543 (9th Cir. BAP 1991) (majority view that room revenues are "accounts" and not "rents"). See also, In re Ashkenazy Enterprises, Inc., 94 B.R. 645 (Bankr. C.D. Cal 1986) and In re Mid-City Hotel Associates, 114 B.R. 634 (Bankr. D.Minn. 1990). 

 7. Bankruptcy Code Section 552(b). 

 Appendix: 

 Basic Do's-and-Don'ts of Working with Troubled Loans 

 1. Prevention. Prevention is the first step in a well-planned approach to troubled loans. Proper underwriting, documentation, and provisions for access to information may help a lender facing a troubled loan. In the event the loan does get into trouble, the lender will be in a stronger position to protect its interests. Prevention includes careful underwriting of the collateral and the borrower. In underwriting the borrower, the lender should obviously look to the usual credit report and financial statements, but should often go beyond them to get a better feel forthe borrower's reputation, character, fortitude, expertise, consistency and creativity. The lender should ask: Has this borrower built or managed this kind of project before? Are the market and feasibility studies realistic? Are the projections consistent with these factors and do they provide adequately for a worst case scenario? 

 Once the credit decision has been made, the transaction should be fully and carefully documented with prevention in mind. Use the checklist approach to be sure nothing is overlooked. Be sure all desired title and liability insurance is in place, with endorsements to cover the lender's interests. Particularly with construction loans, negotiate all necessary controls for the project -to cover both the ordinary course of building and the possibility of default. A lender will never have a better opportunity to protect its interests than the period before it has disbursed the loan proceeds. 

 2. Monitoring and Early Warning. Information control is paramount. A lender must carefully monitor its loans until they are paid off. Early warning systems should be established to alert the lender to problems with the borrower, the collateral, or the project's feasibility. Is the construction or marketing of the project being delayed? Is the property being wasted? Are materials disappearing from the job site? Have the demographics and economics of the market changed adversely? If signs of trouble appear, the troubled asset group should be consulted at an early stage, even if the project stays in the hands of the loan servicing department. 

 3. Use a Special Assets Group for Troubled Assets. Whatever the name and acronym,' a specialized group should be used for handling troubled assets. A specialized division for working on troubled assets (for convenience we will refer to this group as a special asset group or"SAG") brings greater objectivity in dealing with troubled loan issues, thereby minimizing the peril of an approach drawn from past dealings with the borrower that may be either too sympathetic or too harsh and raise lender liability issues. 

 The SAG should also bring or will develop specialized expertise in handling the unique problems of troubled assets. It should be provided with expedited access to senior management for policy decisions and allocation of resources. It should also have authority to implement crucial procedures and policies such as settling customer complaints, bringing in special counsel, hiring consultants, executing pre-workout documents and documenting negotiations to avoid liability for unsuccessful workouts. Bringing the SAG into the situation also provides notice to the borrower that the lender is serious about collecting the debt and that this is not business as usual. 

 4. Information Update. The SAG, with its experienced, detached personnel, should gather, analyze and summarize all relevant information on the loan, the borrower, the collateral, and relevant documentation and history. Update the borrower's financial statements, tax returns, litigation history, and credit rating. In addition to gathering all loan documents, promissory notes, guaranties, and evidences of advances, notices, a complete written history of the loan should be prepared. When the history is compiled, care should be given to protect as much as possible from discovery if you choose litigation so that any candid descriptions of problems and proposed solutions to such problems will not be a part of the evidence at trial. This can be done by engaging outside counsel or involving the bank's in-house legal department. Loan service personnel should be interviewed, and waiver and estoppel issues must be evaluated. Consider interviewing witnesses with counsel present, to protect sensitive information obtained from disclosure later on if litigation is filed. The impact of conversations, correspondence, and course of conduct must be given careful consideration. Appraisals, projections, and feasibility studies should be updated as necessary. 

 Two final cautions on information updates. First, the update of collateral information should include a physical inspection of the premises. Walk the project! Don't settle for "drive-by" or borrower's guided tour. The physical inspection may suggest problems to be dealt with or new approaches to the project. 

 Second, the information, documents and summaries gathered by the SAG should be reviewed by counsel experienced in troubled loan matters and lender liability. This review should analyze the validity of the notes, security interests, guaranties, and other important documents with an eye toward identifying defects that might be cured or curable. From this review, lenders should also be able to determine the potential of any borrower defenses 

 or counter claims. Counsel should find out from the lender if there are any potential tort or strict liability claims that may go along with any transfers of ownership in real property, such as an apartment owner's duty to pay for tenant injuries or a landowner's duty to pay the costs of cleaning up contaminated property. 

 5. Evaluate the Information and Alternatives. All the gathered information needs to be evaluated by appropriate business and legal personnel. Fully armed with this information and evaluation, the lender can then assess whetherto do nothing, commence a work-out or restructure of the loan, seek a receiver, initiate foreclosure or initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings. 

 6. Develop a "Game Plan" and Stick to it! Once an alternative course of action has been selected, the lender should develop a game plan or blue print for executing its course of action. There may be valid reasons to wait until specified events have occurred or time periods have elapsed. However, in general, once the course of action has been decided, delay is ill-advised. The most successful lenders are those who stick with their game plan, except as changed circumstances may warrant. 

 7. Pre-Workout Agreement. Before commencing workout negotiations, a pre-workout agreement should be executed. Such an agreement offers the advantage of protecting the lender from liability for claims arising from the workout process itself. 

 Many institutions have been "bitten" by their good faith efforts in a workout situation. They report that desperate debtors or their unscrupulous representatives have either misunderstood statements made in workout negotiations, or intentionally misrepresented positions taken. Whatever the motivation or cause of the problems, these institutions find themselves the victim of claims that oral agreements, representations, or waivers made in the course of a workout entitle the borrower to rights or damages never contemplated by the lender upon entering workout negotiations. The pre-workout agreement is designed to minimize these risks. 

 The pre-workout agreement typically recites that the parties are about to commence workout negotiations and that the agreement is a material inducement for the lender to participate. Loan documents can be attached as exhibits and acknowledged to be legally binding on the parties. It is usually agreed that the loan documents continue in full force, unless modified in the specific manner permitted by the pre-workout agreement. Sometimes, egregious problems that exist in the lender's loan documentation can be corrected in a pre-workout agreement, when the borrower is usually in a very cooperative mood. The confirmation of loan document's binding effect, recital of loan history, and acknowledgment of defaults may greatly simplify collection efforts later if the negotiations fail or the workout falls apart. Consider inserting a confidentiality provision in the pre-workout agreement, to try to prevent the borrower from using the media to increase its negotiating leverage, especially if the borrower is in a business that may attract media attention. 

 The key provision of the pre-workout agreement recites that discussions and negotiations between the parties may be lengthy and complex, however, no discussions or oral agreement have any effect whatsoever unless all parties execute a written agreement. This critical provision helps prevent a party from claiming a binding agreement was reached on certain issues in the absence of satisfactory resolution of all disputes in the workout process. 

 The agreement should: 1). provide that only amendments in writing have any effect; 2). should state that the pre-workout agreement is the entire agreement of the parties on the subject matter; 3). specify the governing law; and 4). provide for attorneys' fees to the prevailing party in the event of any dispute. The agreement should also provide that no negotiations or other acts taken in the workout process constitute any waivers by the lender of its rights except to the extent specifically identified in writing. The pre-workout agreement should also confirm that the attorney's fees to be incurred by the lender in the workout would be reimbursed by the borrower. 

 The most controversial issues on pre-workout agreements usually involve whetherto include a mandatory arbitration provision for any disputes concerning the credit (with corresponding waiver of jury trial and court process) and any release provisions. Some lenders say they would rather proceed with the "main event" if they cannot obtain an arbitration provision and release for any action up to that date. Others would rather engage in the workout process to cure defects in the loan documentation in exchange for concessions to the borrower and are less concerned with the benefits of arbitration or waivers. 

 8. Document the Transaction Completely. It goes without saying that once negotiations have resulted in a restructuring or workout, all aspects of the agreement should be thoroughly and fully documented promptly. 

 1. Specialized groups working on troubled loan assets have often had interesting names and acronyms, such as the Managed Asset Division or "MAD," the Specialized Asset Division or "SAD," and the Specialized Assets Group or "SAG." 

Document ret0000020020315dx1100008

Search Summary

 Text	((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))
 Date	01/01/2001 to 01/31/2001
 Source	All Sources
 Author	All Authors
 Company	All Companies
 Subject	Corporate/Industrial News
 Industry	All Industries
 Region	United States
 Language	English
 Results Found	217
 Timestamp	27 March 2018 10:36

 Page 2 of 2     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

