 
•	 High techs.
•	  ICI to tackle debt and disappointment in '99. 
•	  Despite Shortfall, Newell's 4Q Moves Seen As Setup For '99 
•	 First Union Stock Plunges by 8.5% On  Profit Warning
•	 First Union's Shares Drop on Warning --- Analysts Trim Earnings Forecasts,  Cut  Ratings
•	  Splash Shares Sink As Revenue Shortfall Troubles Investors 
•	  Splash Tech Stk -2: Competition, Lower Prices Hurt Revenue 
•	  World Watch 
•	  Coca-Cola Reports 27% Drop in Profit, Hurt by Weakness in Foreign Markets 
•	 Suddenly, the big US brands are right in the soup  
•	  Coca-Cola's 4th-Quarter Net Dives 27% 
•	 Gas sell-off a crisis barometer
•	  Coca-Cola's 4th-Quarter Net Dives 27% 
•	  Texaco, Phillips, Oxy See Profits Plummet. 
•	  World Watch 
•	  Manufacturers/distributors - new year kicks off with wholesale profit warnings by chemical companies. 
•	  Caterpillar Net Slid 33% in 4th Period On Construction-Equipment Price Cuts 
•	  Caterpillar's Net Plunges 33%, Company Lowers 1999 Forecast 
•	 Assembly line maker stock drops on  profit warning .
•	  World Watch 
•	  World Watch 
•	  Texaco cuts back on 1999 spending. 
•	  World Watch 
•	 Eurostocks end mixed amid  cautious  bargain-hunting.
•	  Ocean falls on Air Express warning. 
•	  Beverage Firms Likely to Post Weak Earnings --- Fourth-Period Profit Hurt By Troubles Overseas, Price Discounting in U.S. 
•	  TEXACO SEES EARNINGS SHORTFALL, CHARGES. 
•	  Campbell Sees Earnings Shortfall On Weakness In Core Soup Business 
•	  Pacific Gateway Stk -2: B.Stearns Cuts 4Q View To 23c/Shr 
•	  HTE Dn -2: Co. Says Poor 4Q To Hurt Year Results >HTEI 
•	  FOCUS-Texaco sees earnings shortfall, charges. 
•	  Borders Shares Tumble After Warning For Fiscal 1998 Results 
•	  Late Buying Surge Boosted December Sales At Nation's Big Retailers 
•	  Borders Dn -2:Co. To Miss FY98 Net Views By At Least 4c/Shr 
•	  Northrop Unveils Hit From Boeing Cuts --- Earnings for 4th Quarter and 1999 Are Dented 
•	  Phillips Announces Broad Layoff, Spending Cuts. 
•	 BRIEFING
•	  Information Management Shares Fall 25% On Earnings Warning 
•	  Soft-Drink Firms Seen Losing Fizz In Quarter As Brewers Tap Profits 
•	  Info Mgmt Stk -2: Co. 'Confident' Will Close Delayed Orders 
•	  Soft-Drink Cos. Seen Losing Fizz In 4Q As Brewers Tap Pfts 
•	  Aspect Telecom shares hit by Q4 warning. 
•	  Spyglass warns of losses, against expectations 
•	 Conoco, Halliburton  Cut  Staff - Companies Blame Low Oil Prices.



High techs.

740 words
30 January 1999
The Economist
EC
English
(c) The Economist Newspaper Limited, London 1999. All rights reserved 

Blue-chip shares have thrived, but Nasdaq has defied gravity, as technology firms outperform everything. Three Internet firms set the tone. At Amazon, still putting growth before profit, losses shrank and fourth-quarter sales shot up to $252.9m, from $66m in 1997. At eBay, an online auction house, profits jumped from $189,000 to $1.5m on fourth-quarter sales up from $2.6m to $19.5m. At America Online, an Internet-service provider, second-quarter sales grew by 62%, to $960m. Compaq, the world's biggest PC maker, has the web in its sights. It plans a $2 billion float of AltaVista, an Internet search service that came with its purchase last year of Digital Equipment. AltaVista's ambition is to become the Internet's busiest entrepot. Compaq also announced fourth-quarter net profits up 14% to $758m. Microsoft made its first investment in a cable company outside America, with a $500m injection in ambitious NTL, Britain's third-largest cable-television carrier.

The software giant also plans a partnership that could boost NTL's high-speed voice, video and Internet services. In line with a warning earlier this month - orders from Japan have dried up - pre-tax profits at Germany's SAP, the world's biggest maker of business-management software, fell by 15% in the fourth quarter, to DM712m ( $428m). Net profit for the year was up 14%, to DM1.05 billion; its shares rose on expectations that the worst was over. A Japanese buy

TRW the winner after Federal-Mogul was spurned by Britain's LucasVariety. The #4 billion ( $6.6 billion) all-cash deal will bring together two firms at the higher-tech end of the components business.

Warner-Lambert, a big drug maker, went against the trend with the $2.1 billion purchase of Agouron, a Californian biotech firm whose strong point is drugs for treating HIV. Thoroughly different cultures have lately encouraged alliances between drug firms and biotech companies.

A big American textile company, hurt by the Asian slowdown, is to cut capacity by a quarter in an industry already well battered in recent years. Shares in Burlington Industries fell by 15% after it said it would cut 2,900 jobs - 15% of its workforce - close seven factories and take a restructuring charge of $85m in the current quarter.

Coca-Cola ended a poor financial year with a dismal fourth quarter as fewer soft drinks were consumed in Russia, Brazil and bits of Asia: net profits plunged 27% to $597m on revenue that declined 5.2%, to $4.46 billion. Profits for the year fell by 14% to $3.5 billion.

Dissatisfied investors forced out David Montgomery as chief executive of Mirror Group - with a large pay-off - because its shares have been underperforming those of most other British media companies. Mr Montgomery has lately been regarded as an impediment to a takeover or merger of Mirror Group.

Two French companies with interests in the French film industry, Canal Plus and its largest shareholder, Vivendi, said they had jointly become the second-biggest shareholder in Pathe, a French television and cinema group, after buying a 19.6% stake from Vincent Bollore, an investor who made a huge profit on the deal. The two now hold 24.6%. Shares in Pathe dropped 10% as hopes of a takeover battle receded.

Philip Morris saw fourth-quarter net income fall by 79%, to $274m, partly as a result of pre-tax charges of $2.4 billion taken against the cost of tobacco litigation.

After two years of misery, Boeing returned with a strong fourth quarter. Net income was $465m, at the higher end of expectations, compared with a loss of $498m a year earlier. But the big fillip was in revenues, which rose from $11.7 billion a year earlier to $17.1 billion.

TradeJapan's trade surplus jumped in December, taking the full-year total to a record Y 13.99 trillion ( $107 billion); its surplus with America, at Y 6.7 trillion, was the highest since 1987. The figures add to worsening relations with America, which is currently griping about steel imports and insurance. Meanwhile, America's row with Europe over hormone-treated beef and bananas - especially bananas - was close to breaking out into war.

An IMF-team descending on Brazil was greeted with an increase in interest rates to 35.5% from 32.5%, designed to boost the ailing real. 

Document ec00000020010904dv1u002na




 ICI to tackle debt and disappointment in '99. 

 By Paul Casciato 
670 words
29 January 1999
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Jan 29 (Reuters) - British chemicals group Imperial Chemical Industries Plc is likely this year to try and overcome the recent frustrating setbacks to its disposal programme and trim its four billion pound ($6.58 billion) mountain of debt. 

 Analysts said they are expecting ICI on Thursday to reveal a pre-tax profit just above 315 million pounds for 1998, in line with the company's January 4 trading statement. The dividend is expected to remain flat at 32 pence a share, while expectations of earnings per share hover around 31.5p to 32.2p. 

 "They have indicated they will show a figure pre-tax, clean of exceptions and amortization of at least 315 million pounds," said Philip Morrish, analyst at Paribas in London. 

 That would mean ICI pre-tax, pre-exception profits dropped from the 385 million pounds reported in 1997 and will have fallen far short of early 1998 forecasts, which started the year with estimates as high as 440 million pounds. 

 But analysts said the measuring stick for ICI this year will be the shape and size of its disposals and the level to which it can reduce its debt. 

 "The debt is such a drain on the company," said Jeremy Chantry, analyst at Credit Lyonnais Securities Europe. 

 "It reduces the ability of the company to take advantage of the opportunities that come along." 

 On that front ICI Chief Financial Officer Alan Spall told Reuters in January the company is considering its options, including spinning off its Tioxide group as a publicly traded company. In the meantime, Tioxide is still making money and the possibility of a disposal from ICI's industrial portfolio remains. 

 Paribas' Morrish said ICI could also consider divesting itself of its cash-generative coatings business as a quick way of shedding some of its debt. 

 "That way you would lift your (earnings) margins and your rates of return almost overnight if you divested that," he said. 

 But the overall trading environment is also expected to be difficult in 1998. The UK Chemicals Industries Association said in January that Europe's $430 billion chemical industry is set for a slowdown in 1999 under pressure from cheaper Asian imports and threatened by macroeconomic factors. 

 WestLB Panmure analyst, Charles Pick, said on Thursday that as a result of weaker markets, profits would remain under pressure in 1999 and a cautious statement was likely from the company in its earnings report. 

 Although 1998 started with fanfare over ICI's transformation into a high margin speciality chemicals company through eight billion pounds worth of acquisitions from Unilever Plc/NV  in 1997, it soon became apparent that shedding its low margin bulk assets would be tougher than first expected. 

 Indeed, things seemed to be moving in an upwards direction for ICI as late as May 1998, with shares trading at record highs and the company claiming its disposal program for bulk chemicals was two years ahead of schedule. 

 But a difficult chemicals market, financial turmoil in Asia and a strong British pound soon scuppered ICI's expectations for a banner year and the company issued a profit warning in July. 

 Further bad news appeared in October when ICI announced the planned $455 million sale of its Crosfield unit to W.R. Grace  collapsed because it failed to receive approval from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. 

 The FTC also delivered another crippling blow in early January, 1999 by denying approval of a $1.0 billion agreement to sell ICI's titanium dioxide (Tioxide) group deal to DuPont Co  and NL Industries Inc . 

 ICI shares were up 19-1/2 pence at 544-1/2p on Friday. They have fallen from a peak of 12 #44 pence a share in May this year, but are up from a historic low of 454p in September. 

 (( London newsroom +44 171 542 7980 fax +44 171 583 3769, paul.casciato@reuters.com)) ($1=.6076 Pound). 

 . 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv1t05j5t




 Despite Shortfall, Newell's 4Q Moves Seen As Setup For '99 

 By Christopher Bowe 
460 words
28 January 1999
20:11
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--Despite missing Wall Street expectations by a penny after its December profit warning, Newell Co.'s (NWL) fourth quarter was an exercise in savvy business moves preparing the way for its 1999 integration of Rubbermaid Inc. (RBD), analysts said. 

 "It was a lot of year-end housekeeping," said James Lucas, of Janney Montgomery Scott Inc. "Newell is right where they need to be to Newellize Rubbermaid in 1999." 

 Newell agreed in October to buy Rubbermaid in a stock transaction valued about $5.8 billion, forming a combined company called Newell Rubbermaid Inc. The deal hasn't closed yet. 

 Many use the term 'Newellize' as reference to the company's reputation for ravenously acquiring underperforming businesses and tightening their operations to squeeze out maximum profit efficiency. 

 Seeing soft sales from September to November in key divisions like office products, Newell made some conservative moves in order to position the company to move forward in 1999, analysts said. 

 Newell, a Freeport, Ill., maker of housewares, hardware, home and office products, slowed factory production to reduce inventory to levels 5% down, analysts said. 

 The company also took one-time charges totaling $56.5 million relating to its acquisition of Calphalon cookware and corporate realignment costs at the Goody, Amerok and Lee Rowan units. 

 Production slowdowns for inventory reduction affect earnings and profit margins, as companies lose operating efficiencies - producing fewer goods with the same amount of fixed factory or overhead expenses. 

 "They took the opportunity to start clean going into '99," said Timothy Reiland, an analyst at Cleary Gull Reiland & McDevitt. "Their inventories look very, very good going into 1999." 

 Calling the fourth quarter a "short-term blip," Lucas concurred saying: "I think (slowing production) was a very good business decision." 

 Furthermore, Newell took the opportunity to wring out the dilutive earnings effects from costs associated with the Calphalon buy and setting up Goody and Amerok for the new year, Reiland said. 

 Earlier in the day, Newell reported fourth-quarter earnings of 57 cents a diluted share, beating year-ago earnings of 56 cents but missing a First Call Corp. estimate of 58 cents. Revenue rose 14% to $1.07 billion from $941.2 million in 1997. 

 On Dec. 10, Newell issued a warning that its fourth-quarter earnings would fall in a range between 56 cents and 61 cents, down from a First Call consensus estimate of 67 cents. 

 In recent trading, Newell's NYSE-listed shares were up 2 1/2, or 6.4%, at 41 1/2, on volume of 2 million shares compared with average daily volume of 1.3 million. 

 (MORE) DOW JONES NEWS  01-28-99 

 03:11 PM 

Document dj00000020010826dv1s011zn




 First Union Stock Plunges by 8.5% On  Profit Warning 

 By Rick Brooks 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
685 words
28 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C24
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 First Union Corp. shares tumbled 8.5% yesterday, one day after the Charlotte, N.C., bank warned it expects this year's operating income to fall far short of its earlier target. 

 The bank attributed the expected shortfall to an accounting change, some additional expenses for advertising and branch renovations as well as "uncertainty in the economy." First Union provided few details, however, leaving some analysts wondering whether the bank faced deeper problems in keeping costs in check and generating additional revenue. 

 "I think the most important issue is a vagueness about their outlook that naturally breeds suspicion," said Sally Pope Davis, a banking analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co. 

 First Union, the sixth-largest U.S. bank in terms of assets, fell $4.875 to $52.1875 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Contributing to the steep decline were substantial cuts in earnings estimates by many analysts, including several who also lowered their rating on the stock. 

 The warning, which came after the close of trading Tuesday, raised questions about the outlook for First Union as well as the rest of the banking industry, which is facing slower revenue and profit growth this year than in the past few years. 

 The news at First Union contributed to a decline in other bank stocks, as investors feared the stumble may foreshadow coming problems in the industry. In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Chase Manhattan Corp. slipped $1.125 to $73.125, BankAmerica fell $2.8125 to $62.125 and Citigroup Inc. fell $1.50 to $54. Analysts criticized First Union for failing to mention the deteriorating outlook when it reported solid fourth-quarter results two weeks ago, saying the failure to alert investors earlier damaged the bank's reputation on Wall Street. 

 "Credibility, which they had gone out of their way to restore, has been stretched to the breaking point," said George Bicher, a banking analyst at BT Alex. Brown Inc., who yesterday slashed his 1999 operating income estimate for First Union to $4.10 per diluted share from $4.40 a share. Prior to yesterday, the consensus 1999 estimate was $4.29 per share, according to analysts surveyed by First Call Corp. In 1998, First Union had operating income of $3.77 per share. 

 First Union said it expects to boost operating income in 1999 by no more than a single-digit percentage on a per-share basis compared with last year. Such a gain would be smaller than the company's stated annual growth target between 10% and 14%. First Union also won't meet a key efficiency target in 1999, though it said it expects to meet both targets in 2000. 

 One reason for the expected shortfall is First Union will spend as much as $150 million more than anticipated on a massive branch-overhaul project, including additional expenses for employee training. The bank also plans to boost its advertising budget by $100 million. But because economic conditions are uncertain, First Union told analysts it isn't sure those increases can be offset by revenue gains. 

 First Union provided few additional details about its revenue outlook for 1999, leading some analysts to wonder if the company is having trouble generating expense cuts and revenue at CoreStates Financial Corp., a Philadelphia-based bank it acquired last April. Others wondered how First Union could have failed to see the problem until now. "The real question is why they didn't figure this out two weeks ago," said banking analyst Diane Glossman of Lehman Brothers Inc. 

 A First Union spokeswoman said the decision to alert investors was triggered in part by an earlier decision, also announced Tuesday, to change the accounting practices used in the securitization of certain high-risk loans. At the same time, economic upheaval in Brazil earlier this month made First Union less confident it could meet its internal goals. 

 "We felt like we should go ahead and include this as well," she said. "Our intent was to be upfront." 

Document j000000020010828dv1s0021t




 First Union's Shares Drop on Warning --- Analysts Trim Earnings Forecasts,  Cut  Ratings 

 By Rick Brooks 
Staff Reporter
633 words
28 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
UK7A
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 First Union Corp. shares tumbled 8% on Wednesday, the day after the Charlotte, North Carolina, bank warned that it expects this year's operating income to fall far short of its earlier target. 

 Shares of First Union, the sixth-largest U.S. bank in terms of assets, fell $4.9375 to close at $57.0625 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Contributing to the steep decline were substantial cuts in earnings estimates by many analysts, including several who also lowered their rating on the stock. 

 The warning, which came after the close of trading on Tuesday, raised numerous questions about the outlook for First Union and the rest of the industry heading into a year that already was expected to bring slower revenue and profit growth than the past few years. 

 Analysts also criticized First Union for failing to mention the deteriorating outlook when it reported solid fourth-quarter results two weeks ago, saying the failure to alert investors earlier damaged the bank's reputation on Wall Street. 

 "Credibility which they had gone out of their way to restore has been stretched to the breaking point," said George Bicher, a banking analyst at BT Alex. Brown Inc., who slashed his 1999 operating income estimate for First Union to $4.10 a diluted share from $4.40 a share. Prior to Wednesday, the consensus 1999 estimate was $4.29 a share, according to analysts surveyed by First Call Corp. In 1998, First Union had operating income of $3.77 a share. 

 First Union said it expects to boost operating income in 1999 by no more than a single-digit percentage on a per-share basis compared with last year. Such a gain would be smaller than the company's previously stated annual growth target of between 12% and 14%. First Union also won't meet a key efficiency target in 1999, though it said it expects to meet both targets in 2000. 

 One reason for the expected shortfall is that First Union will spend as much as $150 million more than previously anticipated on a massive branch-overhaul project, including additional expenses for employee training. The bank also plans to boost its advertising budget by $100 million. But because economic conditions are uncertain, First Union told analysts it isn't sure those increases can be offset by revenue gains. 

 First Union provided few additional details about its revenue outlook for 1999, leading some analysts to wonder if the company is having trouble generating expense cuts and new revenue at CoreStates Financial Corp., a Philadelphia-based bank that First Union acquired last April. Others wondered how First Union could have failed to see the problem coming until now. "The real question is why they didn't figure this out two weeks ago," said Diane Glossman, a banking analyst at Lehman Brothers Inc. 

 A First Union spokeswoman said the decision to alert investors was triggered in part by an earlier decision, also announced on Tuesday, to change the accounting practices used in the securitization of certain high-risk loans. At the same time, economic upheaval in Brazil earlier this month made First Union less confident it could meet its internal goals. 

 "We felt like we should go ahead and include this as well," she said. "Our intent was to be up front." 

 The news at First Union hurt other bank stocks, as investors feared that the stumble might foreshadow coming problems at other banks. Chase Manhattan Corp. slipped 1.5%, or $1.125, to $74.25; BankAmerica Corp. fell 4.2%, or $2.8125, to $64.9375; and Citigroup Inc. fell 2.6%, or $1.50, to $55.50, all in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. 

Document wsje000020010830dv1s000oi




 Splash Shares Sink As Revenue Shortfall Troubles Investors 

 By Scott Eden, Staff Reporter 
360 words
27 January 1999
20:33
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Splash Technology Holdings Inc., a maker of servers that link desktop computers with color copiers and printers, saw its shares tumble Wednesday as the company's fourth-quarter revenue failed to meet Wall Street targets. 

 Analysts blamed the shortfall, posted Tuesday evening along with earnings that beat expectations, on price cuts earlier in 1998 and keener competition in the high-end server market. 

 Splash said Tuesday that fourth-quarter revenue dipped to $15.7 million from $22.2 million a year ago. The Sunnyvale, Calif., company's bottom line rose to $1.9 million, or 14 cents a share, from last year's charge-induced loss of $22.8 million, or $1.65 a share. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call had pegged earnings at 10 cents a share, although that number was cut from 38 cents in October following a profit warning from Splash. 

 Piper Jaffray Inc. analyst Hany Nada said the company's top line was $2.5 million shy of his expectations, while Merrill Lynch & Co.'s Robert Stern said it missed his targets by 13%, or about $2.3 million. 

 "Their core market (middle-end servers for color copiers) isn't seeing the same kind of growth," Nada said. Original equipment manufacturers, he said, are opting either to oblige their pocketbooks by buying inexpensive low-end devices or to pay more for technologically advanced high-end devices. 

 Splash will attempt to jump start slower revenue growth by upgrading old servers and by launching new ones in second half 1999. But until that merchandise hits the shelves, Nada said, he sees the coming two quarters mirroring the recent quarter. 

 Indeed, he reduced his 1999 earnings estimate to 65 cents a share from 85 cents, chiefly based on projected sluggish sales in the first half of the year. The company reported 1998 earnings of 94 cents. 

 Splash shares (SPLH) finished down $1.75, or 18%, at $7.75 on volume of 1.4 million. Average daily volume is 400,000. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv1r01s1h




 Splash Tech Stk -2: Competition, Lower Prices Hurt Revenue 

 By Scott Eden 
348 words
27 January 1999
18:57
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Splash Technology Holdings Inc. (SPLH) shares fell more than 18% Wednesday as the company's fourth-quarter revenue failed to meet Wall Street targets, market players said. 

 Analysts blamed the shortfall, posted Tuesday evening amid earnings that beat expectations, on price cuts earlier in 1998 and keener competition in the high-end server market. 

 A maker of servers that link desktop computers with color copiers and printers, Splash said Tuesday that fourth-quarter revenue dipped to $15.7 million from $22.2 million a year ago. The Sunnyvale, Calif., company's bottom line rose to $1.9 million, or 14 cents a share, from last year's charge-induced loss of $22.8 million, or $1.65 a share. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call had pegged earnings at 10 cents, although that number was cut from 38 cents in October following a profitwarning from Splash. 

 Piper Jaffray Inc. analyst Hany Nada said the company's top line was $2.5 million shy of his expectations, while Merrill Lynch & Co.'s Robert Stern said it missed his targets by 13%. 

 "Their core market (middle-end servers for color copiers) isn't seeing the same kind of growth," Nada said. Original equipment manufacturers are opting either to oblige their pocketbooks by buying inexpensive low-end devices or to pay more for technologically advanced high-end devices. 

 Splash will attempt to jumpstart slower revenue growth by upgrading old servers and by launching new ones in second half 1999. But until that merchandise hits the shelves, Nada said, he sees the coming two quarters mirroring the fourth. 

 Indeed, he reduced his 1999 earnings estimate to 65 cents a share from 85 cents, chiefly based on projected sluggish sales in the first half of the year. The company reported 1998 earnings of 94 cents. 

 Splash shares recently traded at 7 3/4, down 1 3/4, or 18.4%, on volume of 1.1 million. 

 (MORE) DOW JONES NEWS  01-27-99 

 01:57 PM 

Document dj00000020010826dv1r0109g




 International 
 World Watch 

 Compiled by Luna Shyr 
1,483 words
27 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
A17
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 EUROPE 

 LVMH Issues 

 A Profit Warning, 

 Some Good News 

 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton issued a profit warning, but gave investors some good news with its first increase in quarterly revenue in a year. The French luxury-goods group said fourth-quarter revenue rose 2%, signaling that the market for high-end merchandise in Asia could be pulling out of its slump. The news helped push LVMH shares 3.2% higher in Paris. Still, LVMH said its 1998 net income would fall short of the year-earlier's 690 million euros ($797 million) and that revenue for all of 1998 declined 5% to 6.9 billion euros. 

 Meanwhile, Gucci Group said it still plans to maintain its independence, even though LVMH has raised its stake in the Italian fashion group to 34.4%. LVMH's disclosure increased expectations that Gucci will be brought into the French group's fold, but LVMH reiterated that it doesn't intend to launch a takeover bid for Gucci for now. LVMH includes the Christian Dior, Givenchy and Louis Vuitton fashion brands, as well as top champagne and cognac labels. 

 CEO Resigns at Britain's Mirror Group 

 The chief executive of Britain's Mirror Group resigned in what may presage a short future for the newspaper publisher as an independent company. The departure of David Montgomery followed boardroom disagreements over the company's strategy and whether it should become part of a larger group. In recent weeks, Mirror turned down bid approaches from regional newspaper publisher Trinity and from a consortium called Regional Independent Media. Mr. Montgomery was succeeded by John Allwood, former Mirror finance director and current director of its regional and Scottish divisions. 

 France Remains the Top Tourist Spot 

 France continued to lure the most tourists in 1998, while the U.S. made the most money from visitors. France registered 70 million tourist arrivals in the year, and Spain edged past the U.S. into second place, with 48 million arrivals -- a million more than the U.S. Africa was the fastest growing tourism region, the World Tourism Organization reported. The U.S. recorded tourism income receipts of $74 billion for the year, more than double that of No. 2 Italy. Globally, the WTO said tourist arrivals grew 2.4% from 1997, despite an economic crisis that hurt the sector in parts of Asia. 

 Europe Panel Votes on Withholding Tax 

 A European Parliament committee voted not to exempt eurobonds from a proposed withholding tax, a decision that disappointed bankers. The committee voted to cut the proposed minimum tax rate to 15% from 20%. The plan would require each European Union member government to impose the tax on interest payments made to EU citizens, or send the appropriate tax information on to the citizen's home country. Banks and other financial groups had argued the legislation would impose heavy administrative costs on firms that act as paying agents, among other things. Any withholding-tax package will have to be approved unanimously by the 15 EU member states. 

 German Insurance Firm Targets Rivals 

 German insurer Allianz outlined its plans to take on leading rivals such as Axa of France and American Insurance Group in the areas of travel insurance, and travel, medical, and roadside-assistance services. By effectively merging its relevant French, Italian and Swiss businesses, Allianz said it aims to create a "one-stop shop" for multinational clients seeking travel insurance and related services. A holding company called Elma United will be formed, to be owned equally by Italian insurer Riunione Adriatica di Sicurta, an Allianz subsidiary, and Assurances Generales de France, which Allianz took over in 1997. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Sales rose 31% at Chocoladefabriken Lindt & Spruengli to 1.34 billion Swiss francs ($966 million) in 1998, boosted by the consolidation of two acquisitions. The Swiss chocolate group said the acquisitions -- Caffarel of Italy and Ghirardelli Chocolate of the U.S. -- contributed 25.3% to growth. 

 -- Hungary offered the year's first emerging-market issue in euros, launching 500 million euros ($578 million) of 10-year 43/8% bonds. 

 -- The cost of living in western Germany rose an annualized, seasonally adjusted 0.2% in the six months through January. In the six months through December, inflation rose an annualized 0.3%. 

 --- 

 ASIA/PACIFIC 

 Philippine Bank Swings to a Loss 

 Philippine National Bank swung to a loss of five billion pesos ($128.9 million) in 1998 on hefty provisions for bad loans. The government-controlled bank, which posted a profit of 1.14 billion pesos in 1997, was affected by the region's financial crisis and one of the highest ratios of nonperforming loans in the Philippine banking industry. Late last week, the bank's board agreed to set aside substantial provisions for bad loans in a move that one official said was intended to help clean up the books. Some analysts believe the bank will perform better this year and may even post a small profit. 

 Indonesia Seeks to Spur Investment 

 In a bid to boost new investment in Indonesia, the government is offering income-tax breaks to new investors in 22 industries. The initiatives come as Indonesia struggles to hold on to foreign investment amid rising concerns about the country's political situation. A government official said investment slumped 50% in 1998 from the year earlier. Under the tax-break offering, Indonesia will grant up to a three-year tax holiday for those investing in Java and Bali and up to five years outside those areas. The industries covered include textile, leather, chemicals and crude-oil refining. 

 Malaysia Bans `The Prince of Egypt' 

 "The Prince of Egypt," Hollywood's animated film about the life of Moses, was banned in Malaysia. The country's film authorities didn't give a reason, but said in general, movies could be banned if they were "excessive" or unsuitable for Malaysian audiences. The film, made by Dreamworks, was also banned in the Maldives following a ruling last week by that Muslim country's religious authorities that "all prophets and messengers of God are revered in Islam, and therefore cannot be portrayed." Malaysia, which is mainly Muslim, has strict censorship rules on movie scenes depicting sex, graphic violence and sensitive religious themes. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Shanghai Automotive, one of China's largest auto manufacturers, reported its 1998 profit jumped 49% to 702.3 million yuan ($84.8 million). Sales rose 9%. 

 -- South Korea's giant Pohang Iron & Steel said it will pay its shareholders a dividend of 1,250 won ($1.06) per share for the year ended Dec. 31. A day earlier, Posco reported 1998 profit of 1.12 trillion won ($949.5 million), up 54% from the year earlier. 

 -- Thailand's foreign debt at the end of 1998 stood at $86.2 billion, of which $25 billion was short-term debt. The central bank didn't provide previous figures for comparison. 

 --- 

 THE AMERICAS 

 Developing Nations Get Y2K Warning 

 The World Bank warned developing nations to pay more attention to the year-2000 computer glitch and asked them to use the remainder of this year to safeguard their computer systems. The glitch could devastate the precarious economies of some developing nations, causing power and telecommunications outages, and transportation problems. The World Bank's warning came after a recent survey found that few developing countries have embarked on serious efforts to fix the problem, which stems from the inability of some older computers to distinguish between the year 1900 and 2000. 

 Mexico May Drop Tariff on U.S. Gas 

 Mexico's tariff on natural-gas imports from the U.S. will be eliminated by the end of this year, a Mexican energy official predicted. The tariff, which declines one percentage point a year, is set this year at 4% of the value of the imported gas. One sticking point in eliminating the tariff is a U.S. tariff on a petrochemical made in Mexico: purified terephthalic acid, which used to make polyester. The energy official said Mexico would drop the gas tariff when the U.S. dropped the tariff on PTA. The final decision rests with Mexico's ministry of commerce. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Tourists spent about $59 million in Mexico City during Pope John Paul II's five-day visit. Of the approximately two million people who visited Mexico City during the pope's visit, 60% came from Mexico, 20% from South America and 20% from the U.S., hotel-industry figures show. 

 -- Ecuador is proposing a tax of between 1.5% and 4% on vehicle purchases and a 0.5% tax on companies' net worth. A government report also shows that the country wants to implement a tax on fuel consumption. The proposed taxes require congressional approval. 

 -- Chile's unemployment rate during the October-December period rose to 7.2% from 7.1% during the previous three months. For all of 1998, unemployment averaged 6.4%. 

Document j000000020010828dv1r001xo




 Coca-Cola Reports 27% Drop in Profit, Hurt by Weakness in Foreign Markets 

 By Nikhil Deogun 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
616 words
27 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
A8
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Coca-Cola Co.'s fourth-quarter net income plunged 27%, a dismal end to a disappointing year, as economic weakness in several overseas markets hurt sales of soft drinks. 

 Coke's fourth-quarter earnings of $597 million, or 24 cents a diluted share, were in line with analysts' estimates, which had been sharply reduced last month after Coke issued a profit warning. 

 Even so, Coca-Cola's stock fell. In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, it fell 37.5 cents to $62.5625. 

 For the year-earlier quarter, Atlanta-based Coke had net of $817 million, or 33 cents a diluted share. Revenue declined 5.2% in the latest quarter to $4.46 billion from $4.7 billion. 

 "Historically, this is one of the most difficult quarters I've ever seen at Coke," said Marc Cohen, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co. 

 Investors seem to be increasingly wary of Coca-Cola's profit outlook, and the stock, which was essentially flat last year, is down 30% from its 52-week high of $88.9375 in July. 

 Michael Branca, an analyst at Lehman Brothers Inc., expects Coca-Cola's earnings per share to rise a mere 7% this year. He warned clients in a research note that Coke "could well struggle beyond 1999." 

 Notably, Coke increased its marketing spending in the face of the slowdown. The stepped-up investment did little to boost Coke's case volume, an important measure of the underlying business. Instead, it ended up wounding Coke's operating income. 

 Full-year operating income, which declined 1% to $4.97 billion, was especially hit by weak foreign currencies, the effect of which cut nine percentage points of growth from operating income. 

 World-wide unit case volume, hurt by weakness in Russia, Brazil, South Africa and parts of Asia, increased only 3% in the quarter, excluding the effect of a reduced number of "shipping days." 

 Andrew Conway, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co., said Coke's higher marketing spending shows the company "became more aggressive" in supporting their bottlers, especially in North America, and also chose not to renege on prior marketing commitments. "I think the management team anticipated stronger volume growth than what materialized," he said. 

 Analysts said the recent weakening of the dollar, combined with modest improvement in some large markets, such as Japan and Germany, should help profitability later this year, especially if the U.S. and Mexico continue their strong performance. North America, Mexico, Japan and Western Europe account for about 75% of Coke's profit. 

 "What you're seeing is a tale of two worlds," Mr. Cohen noted. "The developed world has stabilized, with some markets showing improvement, while the developing world is a mixed bag -- you're seeing the full-blown effect of deterioration in Russia and Brazil but strong growth in China and India." 

 Coke officials provided little guidance on future earnings other than to reiterate the company's long-term view. "Even though the economic environment became more uncertain and volatile in the later part of 1998, we strongly believe that our fundamental opportunities for long-term growth have not changed," M. Douglas Ivester, Coca-Cola's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. 

 For all of 1998, Coke's net declined 14% to $3.53 billion, or $1.42 a diluted share. The 1998 results included one-time gains of two cents a share, and 1997 earnings were buoyed by 14 cents a share in gains. Revenue edged lower to $18.81 billion from $18.87 billion. 

Document j000000020010828dv1r001qt




Suddenly, the big US brands are right in the soup  

RICHARD THOMSON  
699 words
27 January 1999
The Evening Standard
NS
A
42
English
(c) 1999 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  

Richard Thomson charts the decline of old favourites that have lost the golden touch  

ANDY WARHOL would never have turned a pile of Campbell's Soup cans into an icon of pop art if the brand name had not been part of the consciousness of Western culture. For nearly everyone, Campbell's is instantly recognisable from a thousand mealtimes, a brand we have all grown up with.  

That is why the stock market was taken by surprise when the company recently came out with a dire profit warning, driving down the shares more than 13% in one day. Yet such disappointments have become commonplace in the world of big US brand names. In the past 12 months world-class franchises including Kellogg, Walt Disney, Nike, Levi Strauss, Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Cola have hit the buffers with varying degrees of violence. Domestically, big names such as Kmart, America's second largest retailer, are also struggling.  

According to conventional marketing wisdom, this should not happen. To build a brand as powerful as Kellogg or Nike is supposed to be the ultimate aim of every large company, particularly if it operates in the retail arena.  

Ironically, it was Nike that gave a textbook demonstration during the early 1990s of how to build a cutting-edge brand with its snappy advertising and expensive sports sponsorship. So what has gone so wrong? Campbell itself blamed unseasonably warm weather for a lack of interest in soup, but Wall Street saw more fundamental problems with the company's inability to adapt to a changing market. Even condensed soup needs a modicum of cooking, but Americans cook less and less. in the last four years, for instance, the number of women who cook a weekday meal has dropped from 74% to 68%. Not surprisingly, far fewer men cook.  

At the same time, Campbell has failed to address the fact that the market has been invaded by hordes of small specialist companies which have taken some of its business. To some extent the company, like many established brand names, is guilty of resting on its laurels and failing to keep up with social changes.  

Kellogg is also guilty of this, precipitating the drastic plunge in its share of the breakfast cereal market.  

As Americans adopt breakfast food that is quicker (bagels) or healthier (fruit or yoghurt), sales of Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies and other Kellogg staples have dived.  

Levi Strauss similarly failed to keep up with changing fashions and the ageing of its traditional customer base.  

Despite recognising its error with a wrenching corporate restructuring last year, the company is still losing market share.  

Yet even managements more nimble than these still have to overcome the problem of sheer size. Nike is as aggressive and adaptable as a modern multinational can be. But when the bottom fell out of the Asian market at the same time as US shoe fashions changed, the company was too big to turn on a sixpence. In a sense, it had over-branded itself.  

It was too closely identified with a shoe style that suddenly became unpopular and has been unable to alter its image fast enough to prevent a spectacular fall in revenues and profits.  

Disney and Coca-Cola are in a similar position.  

The international economic crisis has, for example, disrupted some of Coke's key markets, but in a world already saturated in cola the company cannot easily replace the lost revenue elsewhere.  

The lesson seems to be that whatever the marketing men may teach, a big brand name is not everything. It has to be protected by aggressive management, and even then the fickleness of public taste may still undermine it. Campbell and the others may recover, but in the meantime their more nimble rivals will have gained a march on them.  

Since that is likely to promote competition, the consumer is probably the ultimate winner.  

956219555

LIFE IMITATES ART: THE CAMPBELL'S SOUP CAN AS SEEN BY WARHOL BEARS THE TATTERS ITS MAKER NOW DISPLAYS. OTHER NAMES OFF THE BOIL RANGE FROM KELLOGG'S, NIKE AND DISNEY TO LEVI'S AND RIVALS COKE AND PEPSI  

Document NS00000020060410dv1r00n1v




Earnings Roundup
 International News 
 Coca-Cola's 4th-Quarter Net Dives 27% 

 By Nikhil Deogun 
Staff Reporter
646 words
27 January 1999
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
2
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 Coca-Cola Co.'s fourth-quarter net income plunged 27%, a dismal end to a disappointing year for the U.S. company, as economic weakness in several markets outside the U.S. hurt sales of soda pop. 

 Coca-Cola's fourth-quarter earnings of $597 million, or 24 cents a diluted share, were in line with analysts' estimates, which had been sharply reduced last month after Coca-Cola issued a profit warning. Revenue declined 5.2% in the quarter to $4.46 billion. 

 Even so, at the New York Stock Exchange at midafternoon Tuesday, Coca-Cola's shares were trading down 1.2%, or 75 cents, at $62.1875. 

 "Historically, this is one of the most difficult quarters I've ever seen at Coke," said Marc Cohen, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co. 

 Investors seem to be increasingly wary of Coca-Cola's profit outlook, and the stock, which was essentially flat last year, is down 30% from its 52-week high of $88.9375 in July. 

 Michael Branca, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, expects Coca-Cola's earnings per share to increase a mere 7% this year, and he warned clients in a research note that Coca-Cola "could well struggle beyond 1999." 

 Notably, Coca-Cola increased its marketing spending in the face of the slowdown. The stepped-up investment, which the company revealed only as a 7% increase in its SG&A category (selling, general and administrative), did little to boost Coca-Cola's case volume, an important measure of the underlying business. Instead, it ended up wounding Coca-Cola's operating income, already hit by the effect of weak foreign currencies. 

 The weak foreign currencies cut nine percentage points of growth from Coca-Cola's operating income for the full year, which declined 1% to $4.97 billion. 

 Meanwhile, world-wide unit case volume, hurt by weakness in Russia, Brazil and parts of Asia, increased only 3% in the quarter, excluding the effect of a reduced number of "shipping days." In the year-earlier quarter, Coca-Cola posted net income of $817 million, or 33 cents a share, on revenue of $4.7 billion. 

 Coca-Cola officials provided little guidance on future earnings other than to reiterate the company's long-term view. "Even though the economic environment became more uncertain and volatile in the later part of 1998, we strongly believe that our fundamental opportunities for long-term growth have not changed," M. Douglas Ivester, Coca-Cola's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. 

 Andrew Conway, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, said Coca-Cola's higher marketing spending shows that the company "became more aggressive" in supporting their bottlers, especially in North America, and also chose not to renege on prior marketing commitments. "I think the management team anticipated stronger volume growth than what materialized," he said. 

 Analysts said the recent weakening of the dollar, combined with modest improvement in some large markets, such as Japan and Germany, should help profitability later this year, especially if the U.S. and Mexico continue their strong performance. North America, Mexico, Japan and Western Europe account for about 75% of Coca-Cola's profit. 

 "What you're seeing is a tale of two worlds," Mr. Cohen said. "The developed world has stabilized, with some markets showing improvement, while the developing world is a mixed bag -- you're seeing the full-blown effect of deterioration in Russia and Brazil, but strong growth in China and India." 

 For all of 1998, Coca-Cola's net income declined 14% to $3.5 billion, or $1.42 a diluted share. The 1998 results included one-time gains of two cents a share, and 1997 earnings were buoyed by one-time gains of 14 cents a share. 

Document awsj000020010825dv1r0028l




Chanticleer
Gas sell-off a crisis barometer

John Durie   
1,346 words
27 January 1999
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
Late
56
English
Copyright 1999. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

As Victorian Treasurer Allan Stockdale prepares to sell the first of three State-owned gas retail and distribution businesses the indirect effects of the Asian crisis on the Australian economy will be tested.

The three distribution businesses and a pipeline are expected to fetch about $5 billion, but the effects of tighter international bank credit policies will limit this take or increase the risks for the bidders.

The tighter credit reins are a direct result of the combined and cumulative effects of the Asian economic collapse and the spreading of the contagion to Russia in the middle of last year and most recently to Brazil.

An influx of second-tier European banks has offset the tight credit regimes offering new competition in the Australian market and reportedly the new entrants have slowed margin increases. Just how much so remains to be seen and right now as the bidders, their bankers and the sellers jostle for position competing claims are being made.

Bank mergers in recent years have heightened the problem for borrowers as has the Japanese depression which has effectively taken some 20 Japanese banks from the team of about 70 international banks which in past years have provided big-ticket infrastructure finance.

South-East Asia has already paid the price for relying too heavily on banks to provide debt finance and on an albeit much smaller scale Australia may be learning the same lessons.

The European banks are the worst effected in part because they have higher exposure to emerging country debt than their US counterparts as shown by Brazil where Morgan Stanley estimates put European bank exposure at $US40 billion against $US17 billion for US banks.

Some US banks like Chase Manhattan have cut their exposure to Australian energy projects in recent weeks, with Chase selling down its exposure to the Victorian Loy Yang B power station and along with Bank America and Citicorp it will be at the centre

of the gas sales.

The bottom line for borrowers is twofold, higher loan spreads and higher fees, with spreads expected to widen to around 0.9 per cent from the low-water mark of 0.3 per cent charged as stage one of the loan provided by two years ago by Chase in the Loy Yang deal. If you assume 70 per cent of the $5 billion take for the four Victorian gas businesses will be debt the difference in the loan spreads on top of the 5 per cent for 90-day bank bills is about $220 million.

Some in the industry are dubious of the banks' claims they are spreading the scare stories to enable them to charge higher fees but the facts are loan spreads have widened and will continue to do so despite the obvious quality of the regulated Victorian assets and its potential bidders.

The higher spreads could force marginal players out of the gas game.

Late this week final bids are due in for the first of the three gas distributors, Westar-Kinetic with the sale price expected to range between $1.2 and $1.4 billion. The business is expected to produce revenue this year of $417 million and earnings before interest tax and depreciation of $86 million, which means at this bidding range the winner will pay a multiple of between 13.9 and 16.3 times EBITDA.

These multiples compare to the range paid on the Victorian electricity distributors two years back of between 9.6 and 14.7 times prior year earnings.

Given the changed credit environment perhaps the more relevant comparison is the present market multiple at which AGL (one of the bidders) is trading of around 10 times and Envestra at 15 times.

The bidding will be led by the owners of the recently privatised electricity assets and to justify such hefty EBITDA multiples they will be hoping for huge synergy savings from combining the two businesses.

As John Ralph's business tax committee prepares to swing into the real action a recent study published in the respected US Journal of Accounting Research puts the need for some international consistency in a more urgent light.

The paper studying Cross-Jurisdictional Income Shifting and Earnings Valuation showed where US-based manufacturing companies faced higher tax rates offshore they not surprisingly shifted money back home.

From 1984 to 1992 the income shift averaged between $US25 million and $US30 million a year per company which when aggregated comes to a stunning $US34 billion-$US40 billion of income which should be taxed offshore but was brought back to the US to minimise tax.

David Williams from SG Hambros noted these figures provide a powerful argument for equalising tax rates across national borders.

Today , using market jargon, staff at Bankers Trust will trade ex-bonus with the local arm expected to receive its share of the $1.7 billion in bonuses on offer from BT world-wide.

With 1998 bonuses in their pockets the staff loyalty ahead of the coming turmoil amid the merger with Deutsche Bank will be severely tested as the German bank weighs up the costs of massive lay-offs against the limited investment bank sale options.

Wall Street's treatment of the latest US corporate profits serve as a useful warning to Australian companies as the first-half profit season looms. The old game, through a variety of well known techniques of ensuring analysts profit estimates are met, still holds the key to initial market reaction to profit reports.

But Wall Street now figures US corporates know how to cut costs and manage capital so is focusing on top-line growth, rewarding companies who show they can grow sales in an era of virtually no inflation and a distinctly bipolar world economy in which

more than half the world economy is in recession and just a handful of big economies (plus Australia) are powering along.

Consumer goods giant Procter & Gamble this week reported a profit increase in line with estimates of 9.2 per cent for its latest quarter but sales rose just 3 per cent in the period and its stock price was slammed.

The same went for IBM last week which posted a 12 per cent increase in quarterly profits, just below estimates, but reported a 1.5 per cent fall in sales and close to 9 per cent was taken from its market capitalisation.

Lucent Technologies, the old telco equipment division of phone giant AT&T, suffered a similar fate with its stock price falling some 7.7 per cent after reporting a 26 per cent increase in quarterly profit but only a 5.5 per cent increase in revenues.

The US economy is in fine shape as is expected to be shown this week with the Commerce Department tipped to report a 5 per cent annualised increase in 1998 fourth-quarter GDP growth. But with consumption spending up an average 4 per cent-plus over the last four years against the 2.5 per cent increase in underlying income growth, wealth creation through the stockmarket holds the key to plugging that gap.

Like Australia, the US stockmarket has precious little breadth, with everyone hiding behind the same old stocks, plus in Wall Street's case the support of a hefty inflow of liquidity.

Morgan Stanley strategist Byron Wien figures the US market is now at least 9 per cent overvalued and Salomon Smith Barney strategist Marshall Acuff expects 1999 year corporate profits to fall below those in 1998 which, in turn, are expected to fall below those in 1997.

From 1992 to 1997 US stock prices were backed by annual corporate profit growth of 15 per cent but with slight falls this year in a slowing economy, a fall last year and a forecast growth of just 2 per cent for the 2000 year, liquidity aside, questions must be asked just how long the party can continue. The increasing links between stockmarket values and the real economy put the dangers of a sustained correction to a new high.

Document AFNR000020111227dv1r00l1k




 Corporate News 
 Coca-Cola's 4th-Quarter Net Dives 27% 

 By Nikhil Deogun 
Staff Reporter
644 words
27 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
3
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Coca-Cola Co.'s fourth-quarter net income plunged 27%, a dismal end to a disappointing year for the U.S. company, as economic weakness in several markets outside the U.S. hurt sales of soda pop. 

 Coca-Cola's fourth-quarter earnings of $597 million, or 24 cents a diluted share, were in line with analysts' estimates, which had been sharply reduced last month after Coca-Cola issued a profit warning. Revenue declined 5.2% in the quarter to $4.46 billion. 

 Even so, at the New York Stock Exchange at midafternoon Tuesday, Coca-Cola's shares were trading down 1.2%, or 75 cents, at $62.1875. 

 "Historically, this is one of the most difficult quarters I've ever seen at Coke," said Marc Cohen, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co. 

 Investors seem to be increasingly wary of Coca-Cola's profit outlook, and the stock, which was essentially flat last year, is down 30% from its 52-week high of $88.9375 in July. 

 Michael Branca, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, expects Coca-Cola's earnings per share to increase a mere 7% this year, and he warned clients in a research note that Coca-Cola "could well struggle beyond 1999." 

 Notably, Coca-Cola increased its marketing spending in the face of the slowdown. The stepped-up investment, which the company revealed only as a 7% increase in its SG&A category (selling, general and administrative), did little to boost Coca-Cola's case volume, an important measure of the underlying business. Instead, it ended up wounding Coca-Cola's operating income, already hit by the effect of weak foreign currencies. 

 The weak foreign currencies cut nine percentage points of growth from Coca-Cola's operating income for the full year, which declined 1% to $4.97 billion. 

 Meanwhile, world-wide unit case volume, hurt by weakness in Russia, Brazil and parts of Asia, increased only 3% in the quarter, excluding the effect of a reduced number of "shipping days." In the year-earlier quarter, Coca-Cola posted net income of $817 million, or 33 cents a share, on revenue of $4.7 billion. 

 Coca-Cola officials provided little guidance on future earnings other than to reiterate the company's long-term view. "Even though the economic environment became more uncertain and volatile in the later part of 1998, we strongly believe that our fundamental opportunities for long-term growth have not changed," M. Douglas Ivester, Coca-Cola's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. 

 Andrew Conway, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, said Coca-Cola's higher marketing spending shows that the company "became more aggressive" in supporting their bottlers, especially in North America, and also chose not to renege on prior marketing commitments. "I think the management team anticipated stronger volume growth than what materialized," he said. 

 Analysts said the recent weakening of the dollar, combined with modest improvement in some large markets, such as Japan and Germany, should help profitability later this year, especially if the U.S. and Mexico continue their strong performance. North America, Mexico, Japan and Western Europe account for about 75% of Coca-Cola's profit. 

 "What you're seeing is a tale of two worlds," Mr. Cohen said. "The developed world has stabilized, with some markets showing improvement, while the developing world is a mixed bag -- you're seeing the full-blown effect of deterioration in Russia and Brazil, but strong growth in China and India." 

 For all of 1998, Coca-Cola's net income declined 14% to $3.5 billion, or $1.42 a diluted share. The 1998 results included one-time gains of two cents a share, and 1997 earnings were buoyed by one-time gains of 14 cents a share. 

Document wsje000020010830dv1r002vz


 Texaco, Phillips, Oxy See Profits Plummet. 

953 words
27 January 1999
The Oil Daily
TOILDA
English
(c) 1999 Content and programming. CNBC/Dow Jones Business Video, a division of CNBC/Dow Jones Desktop Video, LLC.

 The carnage that has marked the latest earnings season for U.S. integrated oil firms continued Tuesday as Texaco Inc., Phillips Petroleum Co. and Occidental Petroleum Corp. (Oxy) all released painful fourth-quarter results. 

 But the numbers weren't exactly shocking because each had preceded its report with clear signals of what it would contain. 

 * Texaco: Widely recognized as the most vulnerable U.S. major to low oil prices after Atlantic Richfield Co. (Arco), Texaco had a miserable fourth quarter, seeing profits drop 80% from 1997 levels. 

 Unlike other U.S. integrated firms like Exxon Corp., Chevron Corp. and Arco, Texaco was unable to maintain solid downstream profits - despite its vast U.S. alliance with Shell Oil Co. - because of weak margins and significant downtime at several refineries. 

 Overall operating profits, excluding special items, were just $92 million (15 cents/share) on revenue of $7.81 billion, compared with $472 million (84 cents/share) on revenue of $12.05 billion in the fourth quarter of 1997. 

 On Jan. 8, Texaco had warned investors that profits would come in at 13 cents-16 cents/share, well below average analysts' estimates at the time of 30 cents/share, according to First Call Corp. 

 Special charges - including asset write-downs and inventory valuation adjustments related to the steep drop in oil and refined product prices - forced a net loss of $213 million for the quarter, down from profits of $623 million. 

 With a hefty asset weighting toward low-margin heavy oil output, upstream earnings were just $88 million, compared with $356 million a year earlier. 

 On an oil equivalent basis, fourth-quarter and full-year volumes were up 1% and 9%, respectively. The company has said it expects volume growth of just 1%-2% in 1999. 

 While Texaco maintains it is well on its way to achieving targeted annual savings of $800 million with U.S. downstream partner Shell, downstream operating profits in the United States excluding special items were just $36 million for the quarter, down from $80 million. 

 And international downstream profits were stung by the financial crisis in Asia, where Texaco jointly operates its Caltex Corp. alliance with Chevron Corp. Operating profits were 70% lower at $46 million and included Caltex currency losses of $70 million. 

 For full-year 1998, Texaco's operating profits were 50% lower at $894 million. 

 Texaco shares finished at 48-1/2, down 2-1/8. 

 * Phillips: A particularly unpleasant profit warning earlier this month meant Phillips' abysmal fourth-quarter results came as no surprise (TOD, 1-7-99, p.1). 

 High-cost production in the United States, lower volumes from the North Sea and substantial exposure to the downturn in chemicals margins wiped out its profits entirely. 

 On an operating basis, the company broke even, earning nothing in the quarter after turning a profit of $203 million (76 cents/share) in the 1997 period. Revenues fell to $2.7 billion from $3.8 billion. 

 Special charges - primarily related to oil price-related asset write-downs and impairments - resulted in a net loss of $210 million (83 cents/share) for the period, compared with earnings of $209 million (79 cents/share) a year earlier. 

 Upstream earnings were $47 million, down from $160 million in the fourth quarter of 1997, as crude oil price realizations dropped to $10.80/bbl from $18.12/bbl. 

 Lower output also contributed to lower exploration and production (E&P) profits. 

 Worldwide oil and gas volumes fell 15% and 7%, respectively, mainly because of problems at the Ekofisk II conversion project in Norway's North Sea. Phillips said interim solutions are being initiated to restore Ekofisk output to projected levels this quarter. 

 Full-year volumes were also lower. 

 Gas gathering, processing and marketing profits dropped to $5 million from $26 million as the price of natural gas liquids fell $4.37/bbl. 

 Downstream earnings rose $2 million to $18 million as higher sales offset lower margins. Phillips said it still expects a proposed joint venture with independent refiner Ultramar Diamond Shamrock to be completed by the end of the current quarter. 

 Chemicals earnings were pounded by a cyclical downturn, dropping to $7 million from $67 million. 

 For full-year 1998, operating income was $389 million, a 57% drop from $911 million in 1997. 

 In a conference call, Chairman and Chief Executive Wayne Allen said Phillips is basing its plans on average West Texas Intermediate prices of $11-$12/bbl in 1999. 

 But he said Phillips will benefit from a plan to cut costs by $230 million over the next two years. Of the total, $190 million will be realized in 1999, and about $80 million of that by the end of the first quarter. 

 Phillips shares finished at 40-5/8, off 1-16. 

 * Oxy: Recent word of a potential cash shortfall and a massive 67% cut in capital spending should have clued most observers into what to expect from Oxy. 

 Before special items, Oxy posted a loss of $35 million (11 cents/share) in the fourth quarter on revenues of $1.7 billion, compared with profits of $99 million (23 cents/share) on $1.9 billion in revenues in the 1997 quarter. 

 Analysts had actually expected worse, forecasting a loss of 13 cents/share. 

 Upstream earnings were off 78% at $36 million. 

 Chemicals lost $14 million, compared with a profit of $104 million in the 1997 period. 

 Full-year 1998 operating income was $104 million, well below $548 million in 1997. 

 Oxy shares finished at 15-7/8, off 1/4. 

 Paul Merolli. 

 Copyright 1999. The Oil Daily Co. 

 For more infomation, call 800-999-2718 (in U.S.) or 

 202-662-0700 (outside U.S.). 

Document toilda0020010912dv1r001o4




 International 
 World Watch 

 Compiled by Peter Jeffrey 
1,513 words
26 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
A13
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Europe 

 Concert to Unveil 

 Plan to Cut Rates 

 For Mobile Phones 

 Concert Communications Services is expected to announce today a plan that could significantly lower mobile-phone rates for customers who travel frequently around Europe. Concert, which provides voice and data services to 4,700 business customers, is currently owned by British Telecommunications and will be half-owned by AT&T when the U.S. and U.K. carriers seal their planned alliance this year. Under the cellular-phone plan, Concert's multinational customers can avoid paying hefty international roaming rates when traveling in nine European countries. The fees won't be triggered because cell-phone calls in those countries will travel on Concert's own network, not on those of mobile-phone providers. 

 The savings for multinationals could be big. For example, a German subscriber calling the U.S. while in Britain typically pays $1.35 to $1.83 a minute; under Concert's plan, a customer would pay 69 cents a minute. The initiative, believed to be the first of its kind, comes on the heels of the offer by Britain's Vodafone Group to buy Airtouch Communications. One of Vodafone's aims is to create a global wireless company and eliminate overseas roaming charges for its customers. But Concert appears to have the lead on its main rivals, such as Global One, a venture between Sprint, Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom. 

 Equant Shares Fall on Offering News 

 Equant's shares fell 6.6% on the New York Stock Exchange after the Dutch telecommunications provider announced plans for a secondary offering of about 35 million shares that could raise 2.4 billion euros ($2.78 billion). Equant had a successful $810 million initial public offering last July. Yesterday, its shares fell $5 to close at $70.50 in composite trading on the Big Board. Equant, which offers data services to corporate customers, is controlled by the SITA Foundation, a 59.6% holder, and Morgan Stanley Capital Partners investment funds, which together own 25.5%. The company is a stock-market darling but is likely to face more competitive pressure in the months ahead. 

 UBS Reduces Net-Income Targets 

 UBS, Europe's biggest bank, said it has cut profit targets in the wake of the Swiss financial institution's reduced "risk appetite" at its investment-banking division, Warburg Dillon Read. UBS said it had dropped its net-income target for the year 2002 to between nine billion and 10 billion Swiss francs ($6.5 billion to $7.2 billion) from an estimate, made in December 1997, of 10 billion to 11 billion francs. UBS strategy entails an aggressive expansion of private-banking activities, a lowering of Warburg's risk profile, a continued commitment to institutional asset management and a drive to build private-equity activities. In trading on the Swiss bourse, UBS gained two francs to close at 432 francs ($313). UBS also said that because substantial equity could be freed by concentrating on less-risky core businesses, the bank is considering a share-buyback program. 

 Tension Grows in Banana Fight 

 The U.S. and EU yesterday failed to defuse a trade dispute over bananas that threatens to escalate into a trade war. The two sides were closeted in talks even as they were supposed to be attending a meeting of the World Trade Organization. On the agenda of the meeting was the U.S. request for approval of $520 million in sanctions on EU imports. The U.S. and Latin American countries claim the EU's trade policy on bananas violates global rules by favoring producers in former European colonies. The EU argues it has complied with a 1997 judgment by a WTO dispute panel; the WTO has yet to rule on that claim. 

 German Data Leave Rate-Cut Hopes 

 Money supply in Germany, the euro area's largest economy, grew strongly in December but didn't dash widespread expectations for a first-quarter rate cut by the European Central Bank. German M3 money supply, which the Bundesbank uses as a measure of inflation trends, rose an annualized, seasonally adjusted 5.9% from the fourth quarter of 1997. That's up from 5.3% in October and November. However, as the strong growth in M3 seems to stem largely from special domestic factors that boosted private bank lending, it wasn't seen as a deeply worrying sign of rising inflation. 

 Ericsson Layoffs to Exceed Forecasts 

 Telecommunications-equipment maker Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson yesterday put the number of jobs it plans to cut world-wide in the next two years at 11,600, or roughly 11% of its work force, as part of a restructuring announced a month ago. Ericsson said the job cuts will create savings of about three billion Swedish kronor ($380 million) a year. A plan to cut as many as 10,000 jobs was announced after Ericsson's surprise profitwarning last month. Nor does the company exclude further layoffs in the next two years. The cuts are part of an overall restructuring to bring the company's mobile-phone and switching-system divisions closer together. Mobile-telecom and Internet technologies are increasingly becoming part of the same industry, and their union is promoting layoffs. 

 Gazprom Begins Its Own Layoffs 

 Russia's largest company, the natural-gas monopoly Gazprom, confirmed that it has started massive layoffs that could total more than 35,000 people. It said the reductions would likely amount to 10% of the company's work force of 350,000. Gazprom revealed the plans in an interview with the Moscow Times newspaper Saturday. It also said some subsidiaries might be merged to cut administrative expenses. Senior Gazprom executives have said the company had a substantial loss in 1998 because of the sharp fall in European gas prices and Russia's financial crisis. Separately, amid low crude prices around the world, Russia will merge oil companies Rosneft, Slavneft and Onako, holding a 75% stake in the new structure, the Interfax news agency reported. Russia said it is restructuring, not nationalizing, the companies, in which it currently holds respective stakes of 100%, 75% and 89%. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Britain's National Grid Group is examining the books of Boston-based Eastern Utilities Associates and hopes to strike a deal to buy the company within a week, according to a person familiar with the talks, who added that the sides have yet to negotiate a price. Officials at National Grid and Eastern Utilities declined to comment. 

 --- 

 THE AMERICAS 

 Brazil Acts to Ease Pressure on Real 

 In a move intended to help relieve pressure on its currency, Brazil increased by 50% the limit on banks' short positions in dollars, to an average of $33 million an institution. The measure helps banks position themselves in favor of an appreciation of the real. Brazil's central bank also said that exchange operations on the commercial and floating-rate markets will be unified as of Monday. Jose Julio Senna, director with Fleming Graphus in Rio de Janeiro, said easing restrictions on the foreign-exchange markets is critical to restoring dollar inflows. Meanwhile, the Brazilian currency weakened significantly against the dollar in extremely illiquid trading yesterday, as a Brazilian bank bought up dollars in the morning and others maintained their long positions, dealers said. The real ended 4.4% weaker, bringing its loss to more than 32% against the dollar since the government devalued it, on Jan. 13. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- A unit of the U.S. insurer Cigna acquired a 45% stake in Planes de Salud Integral, a 14,000-member Mexican managed-health-care organization. Terms weren't disclosed. 

 --- 

 ASIA/PACIFIC 

 S&P Upgrades Korea to `Investment' 

 South Korea's status among investors as the darling of emerging markets was reaffirmed yesterday after Standard & Poor's upgraded the country's sovereign rating to investment grade. Korean debt and shares listed in New York rallied late yesterday as investors separated Korea not only from Brazil's woes but also from the rest of Asia. The upgrade by S&P follows a similar vote of confidence by Fitch IBCA in London last week, the first upgrade since the country escaped near-collapse and turned to the International Monetary Fund for a $58.35 billion bailout in December 1997. Stocks were 3.2% higher Tuesday as trading in Korea began. Still, analysts warned that despite the progress, there is a long road ahead. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- South Korea's LG Semicon, a unit of LG Group, said all eight of its semiconductor production lines were halted as workers protested Hyundai Electronics Industries' expected takeover of the company. 

 -- Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of Malaysia is considering an exit tax on foreign-capital investments, the government said. Such a decision would end a 12-month ban on removing foreign funds invested in the local stock market, part of capital-control measures imposed by Malaysia Sept. 1. 

 -- Pfizer received approval to sell Viagra in Japan, opening up a potentially lucrative market for the impotence drug. Viagra is sold in about 40 countries. 

Document j000000020010828dv1q001j2


 Manufacturers/distributors - new year kicks off with wholesale profit warnings by chemical companies. 

319 words
22 January 1999
European Chemical News
ECHNAW
20
English
Copyright 1999 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved.

 A range of problems including the economic crisis in Asia, natural disasters and a sharp decline in prices has resulted in chemical manufacturers and distributors issuing profit warnings. Plants in the UK and Europe are to be closed by Ellis and Everard, with the loss of jobs, as part of the company's restructuring plans, which will cost #1.6 M. A profits warning has been issued for Nov 1998-Apr 1999. A 3% increase in pretax profits was achieved in May-Oct 1998 to #17 M, with turnover up 8% to #392 M. The headquarters of Chemitrade, which deals in solvents, is to be moved from London to Manchester, and Ellis and Everard plans to relocate its packaging division to Middlesborough. Offices in Europe will be amalgamated. Savings of #2 M/y are expected from the sale of the stake in Novaria by Ellis and Everard. The sale is expected to yield a profit of #1.5 M. Estimates for full-year profits have been reduced by 8-10% by ISP, US, because of lower demand for tetrahydrofuran and butanediol. 

  The company has closed its butanediol facility in Kentucky, with associated exceptional charges affecting earnings. In 3Q 1998, net income of Chevron fell 37% to $461 M because of hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico and lower oil prices. The storms caused losses of $50 M. There was a 26% drop in revenues to $7.7 bn. A 10% drop in profits was reported by Celanese Canada in 1998, to $74.4 M. Turnover fell 12.5% to $696.5 M. The company expects the situation to remain difficult in 1999. In the three months ended 27 Dec 1998, results of Chemfab are expected to remain flat. The company produces synthetic fibres. 

 European Chemical News, Vol. 70, No. 1844 

 (c) Royal Society of Chemistry 1999. 

Document echnaw0020010905dv1m002kv




 Caterpillar Net Slid 33% in 4th Period On Construction-Equipment Price Cuts 

 By Carl Quintanilla 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
486 words
21 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
B13
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Caterpillar Inc., hit by an unexpected wave of competitive pricing for construction equipment in the U.S., said fourth-quarter net income plunged 33% to $301 million, or 84 cents a diluted share, from $451 million, or $1.20 a share, a year earlier. 

 The Peoria, Ill., maker of heavy equipment and diesel engines also lowered its earnings expectations for 1999, saying discounting in the U.S. and continued weak demand for equipment overseas would push sales and profits below year-ago levels. 

 Sales for the latest quarter rose 4.1% to $5.4 billion from $5.2 billion in the year-earlier period. 

 The results sparked little reaction on Wall Street, in part because analysts lowered their estimates last month after Caterpillar issued a fourth-quarter profit warning. In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, Caterpillar shares fell 75 cents to close at $45.1875. 

 But some expressed surprise at the speed at which cutthroat pricing tactics came to the U.S. market for construction equipment. Until recently, prices of construction machines in the U.S. were robust, as housing starts soared to 11-year highs and highway-construction projects rose on passage of the federal highway bill. Strong pricing, in turn, has supported Caterpillar's earnings even as demand for machines has wilted in Latin America and Southeast Asia. 

 But Caterpillar yesterday said its competitors have cut prices in recent months to make up for weak sales of their farm equipment. Unlike competitors Case Corp, and Deere & Co., Caterpillar derives less than 5% of its revenue from farm equipment. 

 The discounting took a toll on Caterpillar's machinery unit, where operating profit plummeted 44% on a 9% decline in sales. "Discounting was the most significant factor in the fourth quarter in terms of impact on profitability," said Lynn McPheeters, chief financial officer. The decline was only partly offset by stronger sales of the company's diesel engines. 

 Alex Blanton, an analyst with Ingalls & Snyder LLC, New York, said he didn't expect price discounting to continue after the third quarter, when Caterpillar first reported a rash of discounts. Yesterday, however, Caterpillar said discounting had worsened in the fourth quarter, shaving some $100 million off revenue, Mr. Blanton said. 

 Caterpillar said there are signs prices are rising again to more normal levels. But Tobias Levkovich, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, said the pricing picture is far from clear. "There is no indication from our sources that pricing competition has abated at all," he said. 

 For the full year, Caterpillar said net income fell 9.1% to $1.5 billion, or $4.11 a diluted share, from $1.67 billion, or $4.37 a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 11% to $21 billion from $18.9 billion in 1997. 

Document j000000020010828dv1l000nu




 Corporate News 
 Caterpillar's Net Plunges 33%, Company Lowers 1999 Forecast 

 By Carl Quintanilla 
Staff Reporter
345 words
21 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
3
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Caterpillar Inc., hit by an unexpected wave of competitive pricing for construction equipment in the U.S., said fourth-quarter net income plunged 33% to $301 million, or 84 cents a diluted share, from $451 million, or $1.20 a share, a year earlier. 

 The U.S. maker of heavy-equipment and diesel engines also lowered its earnings expectations for 1999, saying discounting in the U.S. and continued weak demand for equipment overseas would push sales and profits below year-earlier levels. 

 Sales for the latest quarter rose to $5.4 billion from $5.2 billion last year. 

 The results sparked little reaction on Wall Street, in part because analysts lowered their estimates last month after Caterpillar issued a fourth-quarter profit warning. In New York Stock Exchange trading, Caterpillar shares fell 75 cents, or 1.6%, to $45.9375. 

 But some expressed surprise at the speed at which cutthroat pricing tactics came to the U.S. market for construction equipment. Until recently, prices of construction machines in the U.S. were robust as housing starts soared to 11-year highs and highway construction projects rose on passage of the federal highway bill. Strong pricing, in turn, has supported Caterpillar's earnings even as demand for machines has wilted in Latin America and Southeast Asia. 

 But Caterpillar said its competitors -- presumably its largest U.S. rivals, Case Corp. and Deere & Co. -- have cut prices in recent months to make up for weak sales of their farm equipment. Unlike Case and Deere, Caterpillar derives just a small percentage of its revenue from farm equipment: less than 5%. 

 The discounting took a toll on Caterpillar's machinery unit, where operating profit plummeted 44% on a 9% decline in sales. "Discounting was the most significant factor in the fourth quarter in terms of impact on profitability," said Lynn McPheeters, the company's chief financial officer. The decline was only partly offset by stronger sales of the company's diesel engines. 

Document wsje000020010830dv1l001xz




 Assembly line maker stock drops on  profit warning . 

 By Gilbert Le Gras 
478 words
20 January 1999
17:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 TORONTO, Jan 20 (Reuters) - Rattled investors dumped more than five million shares in ATS Automation Tooling Systems Inc. , a leading North American automated assembly line maker, after it warned that revenues from a key client would be substantially lower than expected next year. 

 The Cambridge, Ontario-based manufacturer saw its shares plunge 36.8 percent to a new low of C$12 a share at the opening of trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange before recovering to C$14.20 by midday. 

 The company's 2,600 workers at 19 plants in Canada, the United States and Europe had rewarded investors for some time with high earnings growth. And its stock closed on Tuesday with a price-to-earnings multiple of 29 to 1, indicating investor expectations of more growth to come. 

 But the assembly line and precision tool maker warned investors after yesterday's market close that revenues from an unnamed microelectronics client, widely believed to be Intel Corp. , would be "substantially lower" in 2000. 

 ATS cannot disclose the name of the client for reasons of confidentiality. 

 "We're still evaluating the impact. I think the material information is out in the market. We're not able to forecast the decline in revenues right now," ATS Chief Financial Officer Ron Jutras told Reuters. 

 The stock plunged on the announcement, dragging down the price-to-earnings ratio which now stands at 17.76 to 1. 

 ATS posted revenues of C$403 million in its last fiscal year ended March 1998. The microelectronics client's contract began this year at C$100 million and revenue from that project was originally expected to generate C$150 million in 2000. 

 "The world is not going to come to an end but the high multiple is because they're looking at lower growth. We don't know what the growth rate is going to be and we're not getting a huge amount of guidance from the company, maybe because they don't know," one analyst said. 

 The news saw ATS lead the TSE in net losses as well as volume with more than 4.6 million shares changing hands. 

 "This contract marked our first significant outsourcing opportunity in the microelectronics marketplace, but we expect it won't be our last," ATS President and Chief Executive Klaus Woerner said in Tuesday's statement. 

 But not everyone is convinced of even that assessment. 

 "There's been a technological shift at Intel and it's reducing demand for their product, some think it'll end demand for it," another analyst said. 

 ATS also builds automated assembly lines and test systems for the automotive, consumer products and healthcare industries. 

 ($1=$1.52 Canadian) 

 ((Toronto Reuters Newsroom, 416 941 8100, fax 416 869 3436, email: toronto.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv1k067yf




 International 
 World Watch 

 Compiled by Luna Shyr 
1,513 words
20 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
A14
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 EUROPE 

 Russia's Duma 

 Backs Framework 

 Of Draft Budget 

 Russia's lower house of parliament, or State Duma, gave preliminary approval to an austere 1999 draft budget on the eve of a crucial visit from international lenders. The International Monetary Fund, whose delegation arrives in Moscow today for talks, has criticized the draft as unrealistic. The budget is based on an inflation rate for the year of 30% and a ruble rate of 21.5 rubles to the dollar, though the currency traded yesterday at 23 rubles to the dollar. The budget, which must be approved four times before it is sent to parliament's upper house, calls for 473.82 billion rubles ($21.2 billion) in revenue and 575.09 billion rubles in spending. A final vote is scheduled for next month. 

 Meanwhile, members of the so-called London Club of commercial-bank creditors expect a tally today of their votes on whether or not to demand accelerated payments from Russia on $25 billion in loans. Russia doesn't have the cash in any case and has already been declared in default on other credits. 

 Price Cuts Help Club Med to a Profit 

 Club Mediterranee is back in sunny territory. Steep summer price cuts at its holiday resorts helped the French group's European business rebound, leading to a turnaround in the company's results. The vacation-village operator turned in profit of 171 million francs ($30.2 million) in the year ended Oct. 31; in the previous year, Club Med posted a loss of 1.29 billion francs. Revenue rose 1.8% to 8.38 billion francs. The news sent the company's shares up 5.9% in Paris. Club Med is also showing the first fruits of a costly restructuring program launched a year ago that includes closing unprofitable villages, renovating others and spicing up the brand image. 

 Britain's Prudential Sees Better 1999 

 After a rocky 1998, Prudential Corp. PLC, the United Kingdom's biggest life insurer, is poised to boost its new business nearly 10% this year, analysts say. And it may have the much-maligned door-to-door insurance salesman to thank for that. Prudential, which isn't related to the similarly named U.S. insurance company, said new business rose just 2.2% in 1998 after Asian economic turmoil and low interest rates in the U.S. sapped its sales overseas. But Prudential has seen a recent explosion in productivity since it spent much of last year retraining its sales agents following a pensions scandal two years ago that revealed many door-to-door salesmen had wrongly advised clients. The affair forced Prudential and other insurers to pay billions of pounds to people who lost their retirement savings. Prudential said it now plans to recruit more agents, ending a hiring freeze imposed in 1997. 

 Banco Santander Buys More of Bank 

 Spanish banking giant Banco Santander said it paid about $179.6 million for an additional 9.3% of the capital and 3.4% of the voting rights of Argentina's Banco Rio de la Plata. The deal, done earlier this month, leaves Santander with 51.2% of the capital and 64.3% of the voting rights of Banco Rio. Separately, Santander, which plans to merge with Banco Central Hispanoamericano, also of Spain, said it will pay a dividend of 17 pesetas (12 cents) and a 12 peseta special dividend on 1998 earnings. The dividends are payable Jan. 31. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Body Shop, the struggling retailer that pioneered the sale of natural, or "green," beauty-care products, issued a profit warning after weak sales in the crucial Christmas period. The news sent Body Shop shares down 2.9% in London. 

 -- DaimlerChrysler reported a 27% increase in Mercedes-Benz car production in 1998 from the year earlier. The world's third-largest auto company and Germany's largest industrial group produced 926,400 Mercedes-Benz cars in 1998. 

 -- Britain's National Grid Group said it will cut its stake in its Energis unit below 50%, driving Energis shares up 8.7% on expectations the telecom company will join the FTSE 100 index. National Grid will reduce its 74% interest through an offering of convertible bonds and shares. The issue means Energis will no longer be considered a unit and will rank among Britain's 100 largest firms. 

 -- France's Moulinex said its revenue dropped 5% to 5.85 billion francs ($1 billion) in the nine months ended Dec. 31 on plunging demand for its goods in some emerging markets, notably Russia. The household-appliance maker said the poor performance would compel it to cut 190 jobs in France. 

 --- 

 THE AMERICAS 

 Ecuador Foresees 1.7% GDP Growth 

 Ecuador expects its economy to expand by 1.7% in 1999, compared with growth in its gross domestic product of 0.8% the previous year. The nation's president said Ecuador was going through its worst crisis in 70 years, with a huge fiscal deficit. He said the government expects to reduce the deficit to 2.6% of GDP in 1999, compared with 7% the year before. In calling on lawmakers for a joint effort to help the country's economy, the president proposed a tax on luxury cars, a special contribution from the country's wealthiest sectors and a tax on companies' assets. 

 Telmex Gets Order Against Phone Plan 

 Telefonos de Mexico, or Telmex, won a court order temporarily blocking introduction of "calling party pays" billing for mobile-phone subscribers, a regulator said. Telmex worries that callers to mobile phones will be angered by higher bills under the scheme, which gives mobile subscribers the option of paying only for calls they make; they now pay for calls received. The Federal Telecommunications Commission, which planned to begin the billing scheme in March, said it will seek to overturn the judge's decision. Telmex officials weren't available to comment. A hearing was set for next month to hear Telmex's challenge. 

 Venezuela to Keep Currency System 

 A day after Brazil decided to float its currency, Venezuela's president-elect said he will maintain his country's system of foreign-exchange bands in the near term and study a fixed exchange rate for the long run. Hugo Chavez, who takes office in two weeks, reiterated that he plans to meet all debt payments on time but considers it an "urgent" priority to refinance short-term debt and reduce debt-servicing costs. He said Venezuela hasn't been unduly hurt by the whirlwind in Brazil and will grow even more immune as it puts its economy in order. Mr. Chavez also said Venezuela isn't looking for loans from the International Monetary Fund; IMF Managing Director Michel Camdessus will visit the country later this month. 

 Vehicle Sales in Mexico Rise 33.4% 

 Mexican retail vehicle sales climbed 33.4% in 1998 from the year before, with General Motors leading the market in sales. GM was followed by Nissan Motor of Japan, Ford Motor and Germany's Volkswagen. Retail vehicle sales totaled 643,360 units in 1998, and total vehicle production rose 6.6%. Vehicle exports fell 1.1% from the year earlier. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Mexico's new Bank Savings Protection Act took effect, seeking to lower the fiscal cost of the government's 1995 bank rescue and lifting restrictions on foreign ownership of Mexican banks. 

 -- Canada's TrizecHahn continued its real-estate buying spree by acquiring three U.S. office buildings for a total of $370 million. The buildings are in Dallas, Washington and Charlotte, N.C. 

 --- 

 ASIA/PACIFIC 

 Japan's Corporate Bankruptcies Rise 

 Japanese corporate bankruptcies surged 17% in 1998 as companies struggled with plunging profits and asset prices. There were 19,171 cases in the year, the second highest number since World War II. Debt left behind by insolvent companies rose 2.6% to 14.381 trillion yen ($125.8 billion), the highest level since the war. In the month of December, bankruptcies fell 27% from a year earlier, while bankruptcy debt dropped 60% to 1.107 trillion yen. But credit-research agency Teikoku Databank, which released the figures, called the drop in bankruptcies temporary, as overall business conditions remain harsh. 

 Chinese Companies to End IPO Drought 

 A drought in China's initial-public-offerings market may be near an end. Two government-run Chinese companies said they got permission to launch IPOs -- the first public stock sales since the official bankruptcy earlier this month of Guangdong International Trust & Investment Corp., or Gitic. GRINM Semiconductor Materials, a manufacturer of semiconductor materials, and textile concern China Garments will both sell shares to domestic investors on Thursday. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- South Korea's Halla Group said it agreed to sell a 35% stake in its Halla Climate Control venture to Ford Motor. Terms weren't disclosed. The sale will give Ford a 70% stake in the venture. 

 -- China's steel output rose 6.9% in 1998 from 1997 to 114.4 million tons. The industry had profit of about two billion yuan ($241.6 million), about the same as 1997. 

Document j000000020010828dv1k000it




 International 
 World Watch 

 Compiled by Luna Shyr 
1,512 words
19 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
A14
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 EUROPE 

 British Aerospace, 

 GEC Confirm Talks; 

 Price Draws Doubt 

 British Aerospace and General Electric Co. PLC of Britain confirmed that they are in advanced talks, but investors questioned whether British Aerospace might be preparing to pay too high a price for GEC's Marconi defense unit. Shares in BAe fell 4.9% yesterday following widespread reports that it was close to buying Marconi for GBP 8 billion ($13.2 billion), mostly in shares. One analyst said Marconi is valued at closer to GBP 6 billion based on recent valuations of U.S. defense companies. GEC shares closed up 1.4%. 

 BAe is prepared to pay a premium for Marconi, people familiar with the developments say, and some analysts believe that such a premium may be justified. Marconi has been pursued in recent days by BAe and French defense-electronics company Thomson-CSF, but the U.K. company is widely expected to win the bidding. GEC has a board meeting scheduled for tomorrow, and a person close to Thomson said it also plans a board meeting tomorrow to discuss Marconi. 

 Spanish Bank Merger Spurs Shares 

 Shares in Spain's Banco Santander and Banco Central Hispanoamericano soared as financial markets celebrated the banks' planned merger and began to lay bets on who in Europe will be the next to the altar. Shares of the merger partners surged almost 15%, the maximum permitted in a single trading day. Speculation that other Spanish banks would react quickly to the merger sent shares of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya, Spain's second-largest bank, soaring 9.9%. Meanwhile, Banco Intercontinental Espanol said it's looking to form an alliance with a corporation, and expects profit to continue rising in 1999. The bank's chief executive said any pending mergers or alliances wouldn't be achieved through hostile takeovers. 

 Diageo Expects to Meet Profit Targets 

 Britain's Diageo, one of the world's largest food and drink companies, said it will reach earnings targets for its current fiscal year, despite continuing economic uncertainty in Asia and Latin America and the strength of the British pound. Diageo, which owns the Burger King chain and Pillsbury foods in the U.S., said stronger results at its U.S. and European units helped offset slumping drink sales in Asia and conditions in Brazil. One analyst said the market was relieved that Diageo didn't issue a profit warning following last week's announcement by its main rival in the spirits sector, Allied Domecq, that full-year profit wouldn't meet expectations. 

 Olivetti, Mannesmann to Revise Offer 

 Italy's Olivetti and Germany's Mannesmann will revise the terms of their tender offer for Cellular Communications International after their first offer for the U.S. telecommunications holding company failed to appeal to shareholders. Olivetti and Mannesmann launched the cash tender at $65.75 a share; analysts and shareholders say the companies will have to raise the bid to at least $80 a share. Others argue the price should top $100 because valuations of telecom shares have risen following Vodafone Group's plans to acquire AirTouch Communications. An $80 offer would cost Olivetti and Mannesmann about $1.7 billion, compared with the original $1.4 billion price tag. The two companies said they would disclose details of the new offer before the opening of European trading today. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Swedish truck and bus maker Scania said it has the strength to stay independent, even as rival Volvo and other auto-industry players say they are interested in acquiring the company. Scania said 1998 pretax profit rose 16% to 3.2 billion kronor ($408 million). Its shares rose 7.1% in Stockholm. 

 -- Proposals to introduce euro notes and coins ahead of the planned 2002 date met opposition at a meeting in Brussels of European Union finance ministers. Most ministers said such a move raised too many technical problems. 

 -- Nestle shares fell 4.3% on concerns the Swiss food giant will miss its 1998 target of 4% internal volume growth. Analysts foresee 3.4%-to-3.7% growth. 

 -- Austria's Voest Alpine Stahl and Dutch concern Koninklijke Hoogovens threw Poland's plans to privatize its steel industry into confusion as they walked away from a deal to buy into one of the country's largest mills. A VA Stahl board member said the move frees up money for acquisitions in Western Europe, where the firm expects greater returns. 

 --- 

 ASIA/PACIFIC 

 Japanese Securities Firms Take a Hit 

 Japan's three biggest securities companies took a hit during last year's bumpy ride in global financial markets. Nomura Securities and Daiwa Securities said that from April to December, their profits dropped substantially from the year-earlier nine months. Nikko Securities was in the red during the same time span, though its losses narrowed. Daiwa posted parent pretax profit of 380 million yen ($3.3 million) for the period, down 95%; Nomura reported parent pretax profit of 14.23 billion yen, down 33.7%; and Nikko posted a 2.66 billion yen parent pretax loss, compared with a 14.80 billion yen loss a year earlier. Daiwa also announced a restructuring of its group companies that includes cutting the work force by about 20%, or 3,000 people, by March 2001. 

 Japan Trade Measure Drops 5.3% 

 Japan's current-account surplus shrank 5.3% in November, as exports contracted at a faster pace than imports. It was the first year-on-year drop in seven months. Analysts said weak demand at home and abroad is likely to ensure that the surplus, the broadest measure of trade in goods and services, hovers around the same levels as last year. The November surplus was 1.208 trillion yen ($10.6 billion), about in line with expectations. Meanwhile, Japan's production of crude steel in 1998 fell 10.5% to 93.54 million metric tons, the lowest level since 1971. The drop was attributed to sluggish private demand in Japan. 

 H-P, Korea Group Make Financing Deal 

 Hewlett-Packard announced a 150 billion won ($126.7 million) financing deal with South Korean conglomerate SK Group that could translate into at least $325 million in revenue for the U.S. company. The workings of the complex deal, unusually large for a computer company, reveal why H-P considers it such a coup. H-P is paying 150 billion won to buy the computer systems of the entire SK Group, a sprawling empire involving everything from petroleum to telecommunications. Thus, H-P eliminates its competition from South Korea's fifth-largest conglomerate. In return, SK Group companies are outsourcing their systems to an unlisted subsidiary, which is then paying H-P 150 billion won to lease H-P equipment, plus annual interest. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Hong Kong's unemployment rate rose to a record 5.8% in the three months ended Dec. 31, the highest jobless rate seen in the territory since the government began tracking such data in 1983. 

 -- Taiwan computer maker Acer said it expects to boost production of notebook computers by 75% amid rising global demand. Meanwhile, Japan's Fujitsu is in advanced talks to license semiconductor technology to Acer's struggling Acer Semiconductor Manufacturing unit, people in the industry said. Fujitsu wouldn't confirm the talks. 

 -- China entrepreneur Mou Qizhong, once listed as the country's second richest man, has been detained after running up debts of 300 million yuan ($36.2 million), a state newspaper reported. Several top managers from his closely held Land Economic Group were also reported detained. Company officials weren't available for comment. 

 --- 

 THE AMERICAS 

 Brazil Auto Woes Hurt Argentina 

 Tough times in Brazil's auto industry are taking their toll on Argentina. Ford Motor will suspend 1,400 workers at its Argentine unit for 15 months, local news agency Noticias Argentinas  reported. Ford and union officials weren't available for comment. Meanwhile, Volkswagen wil delay for 12 months investments of $170 million planned for Argentina. The money was allocated to upgrade a plant to produce the new Passat model. The president of the Volkswagen's Brazil unit said the crisis facing that country's auto industry has spilled red ink over the balance sheets of Volkswagen and other auto makers. 

 Mexico Oil Concern Plans to Cut Costs 

 Budget restraints at Mexico's oil company Petroleos Mexicanos will translate into cost-cutting measures in 1999. Because of lower oil prices, Mexico's Congress cut Pemex's budget by 1.9 billion pesos ($185.9 million) to eight billion pesos; a Pemex official said that was 4.3% lower in real terms than in 1998. The official said Pemex would concentrate on operating costs as it moves to cut spending, and that layoffs would probably be involved. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Argentine wheat export sales remained stalled as Brazilian millers stopped buying because of economic uncertainty in that country. Brazil is the primary market for Argentine wheat. 

 -- Mexico's Federal Electricity Commission will seek bids in 1999 from independent power producers to build five plants. The plants call for a combined investment of $2.1 billion. 

Document j000000020010828dv1j0006t




 Texaco cuts back on 1999 spending. 

 By Helen Carr 
331 words
18 January 1999
Lloyd's List International
LL
English
(c) 1999 of Lloyd's of London Press Limited

 TEXACO caused limited surprise on the market with last week's profit warning and a $600m cut in its 1999 capital and exploratory budget, 

 The company said 1998 fourth quarter results would include net special charges of $350m and warned of writedowns for properties where investments were not expected to pay off. 

 The company also said it would slash spending to $3.7bn from an original $4.3bn, reflecting the industry consensus that oil prices will not rebound as previously expected. 

 A $650m cost reduction programme, including 2,000 personnel lay-offs, will also be accelerated by one year from 2000. 

 Regarding the cut, Texaco chairman Peter Bijur said: "Given this period of low energy prices... we are strategically focusing capital on the key projects that represent optimum long-term growth opportunities, and at the same time continuing our effort to drive down costs." 

 Fourth quarter charges will include inventory writedowns of about $170m in businesses in Europe, the US and the Caltex operating areas, said Texaco. Asset writedowns of $100m relating to upstream investments in the US, Canada and the UK North Sea and employee separation costs of $95m will also be noted. 

 Results for the fourth quarter, excluding net special charges, are estimated to be in the range of 13 to 16 cents a share, dramatically lower than market expectations of 30 cents. 

 US spending would be directed primarily toward the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, said Texaco. 

 International upstream projects include exploration activities in Nigeria, Angola and Trinidad, development work on the Captain B, Jade and Elgin-Franklin fields in the UK North Sea and projects in Denmark. 

 These will be fully funded, the company pledged, but expenditure in certain other overseas areas will be deferred due to depressed economic conditions. 

 "This sounds dramatic," said one analyst. "But most commentators should have been aware of the weakness in the operating environment." 

 (c) of Lloyd's of London Press Limited 1999. 

Document ll00000020010907dv1i0024r




 International 
 World Watch 

 Compiled by Luna Shyr 
1,569 words
15 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
A7
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 EUROPE/AFRICA 

 Prospect of Linkup 

 Between GEC Unit, 

 Rival Spurs Talks 

 Renewed prospects for a linkup between British Aerospace and the Marconi defense arm of General Electric Co. PLC of Britain have revived talks between the major defense companies in Germany and France. Talk in Europe's aerospace and defense industry that a deal could be imminent between the two British companies has clearly annoyed Germany's DaimlerChrysler Aerospace, or Dasa, which itself was on the verge of a merger with British Aerospace before Christmas. BAe and GEC would say only that talks are continuing with a number of parties, but a person familiar with the developments acknowledged that there was "real momentum" in the discussions between the two U.K. concerns. 

 Dasa fears that such a deal would create a British powerhouse that would put the German company at a disadvantage in future negotiations to create a pan-European defense company, so it's now pursuing its own talks in France. Talks were scheduled in Paris yesterday between the chairman of France's Lagardere Group and Dasa's chairman, say people familiar with the developments. The Matra defense unit of Lagardere is being merged with France's state-owned Aerospatiale, a process that is close to completion. 

 Marks & Spencer Issues a Warning 

 Britain's largest retailer, Marks & Spencer, issued a severe profitwarning for the year ending in March, sending its shares plunging 14%. The company, which also owns the Brooks Brothers clothing chain in the U.S., said full-year pretax profit would likely fall to between GBP 625 million and GBP 675 million ($1.03 billion to $1.11 billion), a tumble of more than 40% from a year earlier. Marks & Spencer blamed disappointing Christmas sales in the U.K. and Europe, and continuing economic uncertainty in Asia. One analyst said the results were much worse than forecast, though reduced profit levels had been expected because of declining consumer confidence in the U.K. 

 Betrothed German Firms See Sales Slip 

 Merging German industrial giants Thyssen and Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp said fiscal-first-quarter sales slipped and that a world-wide slump in steel prices may cut into profits in their first year as a joint company. While neither released profit figures, the larger Thyssen said sales for the quarter ended Dec. 31 fell 6% to 9.9 billion marks ($5.9 billion), pulled down by a 10% drop in steel sales. Sales at Krupp also slipped 6%, to 5.5 billion marks. The companies plan to merge March 1, creating a conglomerate with more than 70 billion marks in annual sales. But analysts say a 40% decline in steel prices over the past year and slowing economies world-wide mean the combination is off to a wobbly start. 

 Oil Exploration in Nigeria May Rise 

 Some big oil companies pledged to double their exploration programs in deep-water Nigeria after its government proposed a tax credit they had sought. The companies, including Royal Dutch/Shell Group, Exxon and Mobil, met in Lagos this week at the invitation of France's Elf-Aquitaine to discuss the deep-water tax-credit investment plan. Nigeria's indigenous oil companies also attended the gathering. Nigeria's deep-water basin is estimated to hold about 20 billion barrels of oil. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Russia's natural-gas monopoly Gazprom posted a loss of 45 billion rubles ($2 billion) for 1998, the Itar-Tass news agency quoted a company official as saying. In 1997, Gazprom reported profit of 38.7 billion rubles. Gazprom said in November that it might post a loss for the year because of the country's financial crisis and falling world oil prices. 

 -- French petroleum group Total got the green light from shareholders to link up with Belgian rival Petrofina. Total's chief executive said the merged Total Fina group will sell operations valued at five billion francs to 10 billion francs ($889 million to $1.78 billion) in the next two years. 

 -- Britain's Sears PLC rejected a takeover bid of 340 pence ($5.60) a share by entrepreneur Philip Green, saying the offer significantly undervalued the fashion and home-shopping company. The offer values Sears, which isn't related to the similarly named U.S. retailer, at GBP 519 million ($855.3 million). 

 -- Sudan opted to use the euro, Europe's new unified currency, in its commercial transactions as an alternative to the dollar. 

 --- 

 ASIA/PACIFIC 

 Malaysia Reaffirms Capital Controls 

 Malaysia, hunkering down against the crisis in Brazil, says it has no plans to lift its capital controls in the near future, but is reviewing changes to the "implementation" of the controls. A finance official said the restrictions, which bar foreign shareholders from repatriating funds for a year and were imposed in September, have helped stem losses from the continuing emerging-market turmoil. Kuala Lumpur's main stock index fell just 0.1% yesterday, a day after Brazil devalued its currency and sparked fears that investors would flee other emerging markets. 

 Unocal to Cut Thai Natural-Gas Output 

 Unocal will cut its natural-gas production from the Gulf of Thailand by 26% this year because of a supply glut and economic disruptions in Asia. Unocal Thailand, a unit of Unocal of the U.S., said it will soon reduce its daily gas output by 260 million cubic feet, to about 740 million cubic feet. Unocal owns a 65% share in the gas produced; the remaining 35% is owned by the exploration arm of state-owned Petroleum Authority of Thailand, and the Mitsui Oil unit of Japan's Mitsui. Unocal and other major oil companies are slashing capital spending and other costs in the wake of continued low energy prices. Unocal said it will focus on core areas such as Southeast Asia, the Gulf of Mexico and parts of South America. 

 Toyota Official Criticizes U.S. Stance 

 Toyota Motor's president said the U.S. should expect "no more opening" of Japan's auto markets, responding to new U.S. demands for greater access to the sector. Hiroshi Okuda said the Japanese auto market is "almost fully stripped" of trade impediments to foreign imports. He said Japan's market is tough because the country's car buyers are fickle, not because of a lack of access. Earlier this week, after meeting with Japan's trade minister in Washington, U.S. Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky warned that trade tensions were increasing and called on Japan to take action on thorny issues such as autos and steel. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Tokyo department-store sales in December totaled 265.53 billion yen ($2.35 billion), down 6.5% from a year earlier, adjusted for a change in the number of stores. It was the eighth straight month that sales declined. 

 -- Passenger-car sales in Thailand rose for the first time in more than a year in December, climbing nearly 16% year-on-year to 6,478 units. 

 -- Japan's Nomura Securities said it plans to set up a subsidiary that will specialize in marketing investment trusts over the Internet, by telephone and through advertisements. 

 -- China plans to suspend refinery-project construction in 1999, a state official said. The official added that refinery projects that have just been completed will be asked to delay operation. 

 -- Nissho Iwai, the giant Japanese trading company, is planning to form a joint venture with Chelsea GCA Realty, a U.S. real-estate developer, and Mitsubishi Estate to develop factory-outlet malls in Japan. 

 --- 

 THE AMERICAS 

 Canada Firm Ends Israel Corp. Talks 

 Canada's Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan said talks ended with no agreement being reached regarding its proposed purchase of a majority interest in Israel Corp. from Blairside and Felconte. Blairside and Felconte are Panamanian companies, controlled by Israel's Eisenberg family, that jointly hold 53% of Israel Corp.'s shares. Following Potash's announcement, Israel's Ofer Group said it agreed to buy the Eisenberg family's controlling stake in Israel Corp. for $330 million. The failure of Potash's negotiations represents the second time in less than a year that the fertilizer concern's overseas expansion plans have been thwarted. The proposed transaction would have significantly enlarged the company's operations outside North America. 

 Telmex Chief Targets Phone Plan 

 The chairman of Telefonos de Mexico said customers would pay 15 times more to call mobile phones under a billing scheme that takes effect in March. Telmex, as Mexico's dominant phone company is known, will charge its 10 million fixed-line customers about 2.40 pesos (23 cents) a minute for calls to mobile phones if the plan takes effect, Carlos Slim Helu said. Mobile-phone subscribers, under a regulatory package introduced last month, would have an option of "calling-party pays" billing, allowing them to pay only for calls they make, not those they receive. Telmex last week asked a federal judge to block the plan. The Federal Telecommunications Commission believes the plan will boost phone traffic, but Mr. Slim said there was no need to when mobile lines were growing at a 90% annual clip. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- A leading figure in a Venezuelan banking scandal was brought before a judge after four years on the run. Former banker Orlando Castro, 73 years old, is accused in Venezuela of misusing $229 million of emergency funds provided by the government in 1994 to save his Banco Progreso. 

Document j000000020010828dv1f002qv




 Eurostocks end mixed amid  cautious  bargain-hunting. 

 By Huw Jones 
654 words
14 January 1999
18:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Jan 14 (Reuters) - European stocks ended mixed on Thursday as investors tentatively grabbed some bargains after Wednesday's big selloff triggered by Brazil's financial woes. 

 "Obviously things are still evolving as far as Brazil's situation is concerned, but it's the right reaction as the selloff yesterday had been overdone," said Edwina Neal, global equity strategist at Lehman Brothers. 

 "We are not expecting a big knock-on effect on confidence in the West, and also we know we have a fairly pre-emptive Federal Reserve and European Central Bank that would act if it looks as if there will be a serious downdraft." 

 The stock market will be looking to see how the Group of Seven meeting of the world's richest nations in Frankfurt on Saturday responds to Brazil's effective currency devaluation. 

 On Thursday, Brazil's real was stable at its new, lower level against the dollar set on Wednesday, thus avoiding a damaging freefall so far. 

 Most stock sectors ended lower, weighed down by chemicals and retailers, but the defensive play of telecoms again showed the best gains. 

 In the broader market, pan-European stock indices ended flat. Blue chips in London fell 0.51 percent, and were down 1.59 percent in Germany, and off 0.19 percent in Spain, but rose 0.97 percent in France. 

 The FTSE Eurotop 300 share index .FTEU3) ended up 1.16 percent at 1170.81. The Dow Jones STOXX index .STOXX) gained 28.98 points to end at 3365.43. Both indices fell almost four percent on Wednesday. 

 The Dow Jones Euro STOXX 50 index .STOXX50E of euro-zone big caps rose 0.87 percent. 

 European stocks had been higher in early trading after the Dow pared substantial losses on Wednesday, and Tokyo stocks closed higher overnight despite Brazil's woes. 

 But the Dow dropped more than 100 points when Wall Street openend on Thursday to dent the fragile rebound in Europe. 

 "There is a bit of bargain-hunting going on, but it's not the end of the story for Brazil," said Mark Cliffe, chief European economist at ING Barings. 

 "People are just awaiting further news about what the Brazil politicians are going to do." 

 Few expected any wholescale dumping of stocks due to jitters over Brazil, as was the case after Russia shocked financial markets with a debt moratorium last summer. 

 "All the stock markets are vulnerable as we are at high levels," said Rick Reed, chief European economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. 

 "It's got to mean there is some risk to stocks, but the risk of large-scale withdrawals from the stock market is quite limited and setbacks are seen as buying opportunities." 

 The retail sector was dented by Britain's Marks & Spencer which issued a profit warning, pushing its stock down 13 percent. Boots Co., another UK retailer, was caught in the downdraft, shedding 5.6 percent. 

 French retailer Carrefour fell 3.5 pecent after Goldman Sachs downgraded the company due to the risk of disorderly devaluation of the real currency in Brazil where Carrefour has operations. 

 But Britain's Dixons Group retailer surged nearly 10 percent, extending Wednesday's gains due to hopes that its new Internet service will be a moneyspinner. 

 Shares in Swedish vehicle make AB Volvo jumped 5.7 percent on Thursday on further reports it may sell its car division to Ford Motor Co.. 

 German stocks were weighed by sharp losses in leading banks - Deutsche Bank fell 6 percent - over worries about Brazil. There were also falls in some utilities due to concerns about possible future restraint on nuclear power plants. 

 "There is quite a bit of uncertainty in this (German utility) sector," said Stefan Wolpert, an analyst at Commerzbank in Frankfurt. RWE slid 5.5 percent, and VIAG AG fell 1.3 percent. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv1e06lpc




 Ocean falls on Air Express warning. 

186 words
13 January 1999
10:07
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Jan 13 (Reuters) - Shares in international freight company Ocean Group Plc slid on Wednesday, hit by a profit-warning from U.S. air cargo company Air Express International  late on Monday, dealers said. 

 Ocean shares fell 47-1/2p or 5.8 percent to 776-1/2p by 0929 GMT, making it the third worst performing stock among the top 350 UK listed companies at the time. 

 Air Express said its fourth quarter earnings would fall below market estimates, largely due to a decline in airfreight export revenue from its operations in Britain, Singapore and the United States. 

 But some analysts were sceptical as to whether revenues at Ocean would suffer by the same extent as they had at Air Express. 

 "Obviously, it is an unsettling statement from Air Express because of the severity of the downturn," said Peter Bergius, transport analysts at ABN AMRO. 

 "Yet the problems don't seem to visible at Ocean at this point," he said. 

 ((Andrew Langlands, London newsroom +44 171 542 4366, uk.equities.news@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv1d06qg6




 Beverage Firms Likely to Post Weak Earnings --- Fourth-Period Profit Hurt By Troubles Overseas, Price Discounting in U.S. 

 By Nikhil Deogun 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
864 words
12 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
No Page Citation
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Major soft-drink companies, hurt by overseas economic turmoil and continued price discounting in the U.S., are expected to post poor earnings in the fourth quarter. 

 But in a reversal from previous trends, large U.S. brewers, notably Anheuser-Busch Cos., should benefit from modest volume growth and a better pricing environment. 

 "The world is a little upside down," said Doug Lane, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. "The big, global consumer companies, like in soft drinks, have run into difficult times because of the difficult economic environment. But the beer companies, which have been pretty average performers, have seen the fundamentals of the business getting better and are not as exposed to the overseas situation." 

 As a result, Anheuser-Busch's earnings should rise 10% to about $161 million, or 33 cents a share, analysts said. And analysts are predicting better times for the maker of Budweiser. "This is potentially a secular change for Anheuser-Busch," said Andrew Conway, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. 

 Among the soft-drink companies, Coca-Cola Co. is expected to report net income of $600 million, or 24 cents a diluted share, a 27% drop from a year ago, as economic conditions damp international growth. PepsiCo Inc.'s bottom line, hurt by higher marketing costs and overseas weakness, is projected to decline about 21% to $345 million, or 23 cents a diluted share. Cash flow at Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. is expected to improve, but the world's largest bottler will still post a loss of about $37 million, or nine cents a diluted share. 

 "The soft-drink industry isn't ending 1998 with a pop," said Michael Branca, an analyst at Lehman Brothers. 

 Coca-Cola, based in Atlanta, already issued a profit warning last month, saying "world-wide economic uncertainty and volatility continue to impact the company's volume and earnings during the quarter." The company's projection of earnings per share of 24 cents to 25 cents was far worse than analysts had anticipated. Meanwhile, unit case volume, considered a key measure of the underlying business, will rise a modest 2% to 4%, excluding the effect of fewer shipping days in the quarter. 

 For the beverage behemoth, usually the model of predictable earnings growth, "it's a disappointing end to what has been a disappointing year," Mr. Branca said. 

 Since Coke derives 75% of its profit from overseas markets, it has been hurt by consumers' reduced purchasing power, which makes even inexpensive soft drinks seem like a luxury in some markets. Furthermore, weak foreign currencies have also severely hurt Coke's bottom line. 

 "Coke in the fourth quarter is being buffeted by two powerful storms: foreign currencies and the slowdown in Asia and Latin America," Mr. Conway said. 

 PepsiCo, based in Purchase, N.Y., has a much smaller international business than Coca-Cola, so it won't be as severely affected by the overseas economic crisis. However, PepsiCo has spent heavily to launch Pepsi One, its new diet cola, and Wow!, the line of Frito-Lay chips made with the fat substitute olestra. In addition, Pepsi's spending on the Year 2000 computer problem is expected to accelerate in the fourth quarter. 

 "From an earnings standpoint, it's a disappointing quarter for Pepsi," said Marc Cohen, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co. "That being said, it's reflective of significant investment in both beverages and snacks." 

 Mr. Cohen noted that he is "particularly encouraged" that the investment appears to be paying off in the domestic beverage division, where he says volume may increase as much as 8% in the quarter. 

 Profits, though, will be another story. William Pecoriello, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., predicts that operating profit for Pepsi's large North American beverage unit will decline 8% to 9% to about $241 million. Pepsi's international beverage losses will widen to about $70 million to $80 million, driven by losses in Russia, according to Mr. Pecoriello, who is predicting a potential write-down of the Russian operations. 

 At Frito-Lay's North American division, operating profit should increase 3% to $445 million as volume growth improves. International snack profit is expected to be flat at $122 million, mostly because of weakness in Brazil. 

 Mr. Conway said Frito-Lay management is placing "a greater emphasis on cost structure," and the lower expenses should bolster snack profits in 1999. 

 The fourth quarter is seasonally slow for beverage companies. That combined with continued price discounting in supermarkets makes for a tough environment for soft-drink bottlers. Coca-Cola Enterprises, the largest bottler of Coke products, has also been investing aggressively in cold-drink equipment and other capital needs, and analysts are predicting a loss in the quarter. 

 That said, Mr. Pecoriello noted that he expects CCE, as the bottler is known, to post a 13% to 15% increase in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Volume in Europe will be flat but should rise 5% in the U.S., Mr. Pecoriello noted. 

Document j000000020010828dv1c001tv


 TEXACO SEES EARNINGS SHORTFALL, CHARGES. 

558 words
12 January 1999
Trend Oil
TREOIL
English
(c) Trend Agency (1999)

 Texaco Inc. joined a growing list of oil companies by warning that its fourth-quarter earnings would fall short of expectations amid the weakest oil prices in 12 years, poor refining margins and Asian currency losses, Reuters reported 

 Amid analyst forecasts that 1998 will show the biggest decline in oil company earnings since the 1980s, Texaco said it expected operating earnings of 13 to 16 cents per share in the fourth quarter. That is around half of analyst forecasts of 30 cents and way down from the 84 cents earned in the year ago quarter. 

 The fourth-largest U.S. oil company also said it would take $350 million in net charges in the fourth quarter to cover the effects of the dire industry conditions on the value of its oil and oil-product inventories, and the cost of a job-cut package. 

 "This past year was extremely difficult for the entire industry and first quarter 1999 appears to be equally challenging. However, Texaco will continue to effectively manage its business during this period of low energy prices," said Chief Financial Officer Patrick Lynch. 

 The announcement follows a profit warning from Phillips Petroleum Co., which said it may not break even in the fourth quarter and would take a $339 million charge. 

 "Everybody in the world is expecting those charges. I actually see it as a healthy thing," one analyst said. 

 Investors agreed, marking Texaco shares 50 cents higher at $54.94 by early Friday afternoon in trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Oil prices have started 1999 poorly, with benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude blend trading at just $13 a barrel, compared with an average of $14.45 in 1998 and a historical average of $19.02 for 1986-1998. 

 That prompted Texaco Thursday to announce that it was slashing capital spending and accelerating a layoff program. It will spend just $3.7 billion in 1999, down from a planned $4.3 billion for this year and $4.1 billion in 1998. The company said it was now clear that oil prices would not rebound to the $15 on which its earlier plans were based. 

 "The revised plan of $3.7 billion is based on a lower crude price premise, reflecting general industry consensus that crude oil prices will not rebound as previously expected," said Chairman and Chief Executive Peter Bijur. 

 The company also said it would carry out a plan to save $650 million in just one year, instead of two, and that 2,000 layoffs would take place in 1999 instead of next year. 

 The oil industry has been hit by a wave of job cuts - 6,000 from Royal Dutch/Shell Group alone - asset write-downs and lower spending from the likes of Conoco Inc., Phillips, Chevron Corp., Atlantic Richfield Co. and Unocal Corp. 

 The mega-merger between British Petroleum Co. Plc and Amoco Corp. to form BP Amoco Plc will result in at least 6,000 layoffs. Merger partners Exxon Corp. and Mobil Corp. will cut 9,000 jobs while slashing $1.5 billion from their combined capital budgets of $15 billion. 

 "I actually think of this as a very healthy thing," said the analyst, "Already production estimates from the 12 largest oil companies will cut one million barrels a day from supply." 

 (c) Trend Agency (1999). 

Document treoil0020010912dv1c0009i




 Campbell Sees Earnings Shortfall On Weakness In Core Soup Business 

593 words
11 January 1999
15:22
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 CAMDEN, N.J. -(Dow Jones)- Campbell Soup Co. stunned investors Monday with a warning that fiscal-year earnings will fall 18 to 23 cents a share below analysts' estimates because of weakness in its core condensed-soup business. 

 Most of the earnings hit is expected to come in the current fiscal second quarter. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call was for Campbell to post second-quarter earnings of 69 cents a share and fiscal-year earnings of $2.13 a share. 

 Campbell's profit warning, along with a Deutsche Bank downgrade of the company's stock to "hold" from "accumulate," drove Campbell Soup's shares to a new 52-week low on the New York Stock Exchange Monday. The stock fell $6.875, or 13%, to $45.375. The previous low of $46.688 was set Sept. 10. 

 Chief Executive Dale Morrison, speaking during a 45-minute conference call, blamed unusually warm winter weather and inefficiencies in the supply chain for weakness in the condensed-soup category, which represents two-third of Campbell's overall soup sales. 

 Morrison said he expects near-term soup volume to be "depressed significantly." Volume growth in condensed soup will total just 1% to 2% for the year, he said, markedly below Campbell's projected target of 4% to 5%. 

 In response to the troubles, Campbell said it was launching yet another cost-cutting initiative. This one is designed to cut costs "in everything from the ingredients to the sale of the product," Morrison said. He added that the company will look to areas such as shipping, procurement, purchasing, freight and storage for additional savings. 

 Campbell hopes to achieve annual savings of $100 million from the plan. Some of that savings will come this year, but the bulk will be realized in fiscal 2000. 

 Campbell said its Pepperidge Farm, Godiva, V8 and ready-to-serve soup brands have continued to perform well. The company said that despite the troubles, condensed soup remains a critical part of its business portfolio and a key growth opportunity. 

 Morrison reiterated the company's plans to increase long-term sales by 8% to 10%. The volume growth goal also remains 5% to 6%. In fiscal 1997 volume rose 3%. In fiscal 1998 the mix was up 4% and in the first quarter of fiscal 1999, volume increased 5%. Excluding the soup business, volume mix was up 5% in fiscal 1998 and 6% during the recent first quarter. 

 Campbell's market share is also increasing. During a three-week period in December, Campbell was the only branded soup company to boost its market position. The private label category also gained share. 

 Last year, Campbell adopted a strategy of keeping U.S. soup prices mostly flat to avoid losing market share to store brands and other rivals. 

 In the year-ago second quarter, which ended Jan. 26, the company earned $276 million, or $1.18 a share, on sales of $2.32 billion. In the fiscal year ended in August 1998, Campbell Soup's net income totaled $713 million, or $1.51 a share, including the impact of restructuring, on sales of $7.96 billion. 

 A Campbell executive, formerly of the accounting and consulting firm Coopers & Lybrand LLP, will work on improving the company's supply-chain management program. The executive wasn't identified. 

 (Editor's note: This story was corrected Monday afternoon to eliminate a reference to PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP.) 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv1b01oy8




 Pacific Gateway Stk -2: B.Stearns Cuts 4Q View To 23c/Shr 

498 words
11 January 1999
16:24
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Pacific Gateway Exchange Inc. (PGEX) shares tumbled nearly 36% Monday after the company, citing slower-than-expected growth from its start-up retail business, issued a discouraging fourth-quarter earnings outlook. 

 "Pacific Gateway has long been regarded as the bellwether of this group," said Bear Stearns & Co. analyst Michele Wolf, attributing Monday's deep selling to investors caught off guard by Pacific's profitwarning. "Analysts thought if you could rely on anybody you could rely on Pacific Gateway." 

 Shares of the Burlingame, Calif., long-distance telephone carrier traded recently at 29 5/16, down 16 3/8, or 35.8%, on Nasdaq volume of 5 million. Average daily volume is 424,400. 

 Wolf called the stock's slide an "overreaction," agreeing with BT Alex. Brown analyst Kevin Moore that the company's problems remain relatively short-term. 

 Along with the rest of the international long-distance telephone industry, Pacific has suffered from thin margins as the sector has become increasingly competitive. 

 Moreover, a World Trade Organization agreement to open telecommunications markets around the world removed an important pricing umbrella, Wolf noted. 

 To combat shrinking margins, Pacific tried its hand at selling telephone services to retail consumers rather than wholesale to other long-distance carriers, as it had done before. The company targeted ethnic and immigrant groups in the U.S., people likely to use long-distance services to call relatives in other countries. 

 That plan didn't pan out as expected, Wolf said. 

 She pegged Pacific's fourth-quarter earnings at 23 cents a share, down from her previous view of 34 cents, and said she believes the company could recover by second half 1999. 

 But until the growth rate resumes its march upward, she said, "we're on a wait-and-see mode." 

 Company officials didn't immediately return calls seeking comment. 

 In a statement released early Monday, Pacific said fourth-quarter earnings will fall 6 cents to 8 cents below analysts' expectations of 32 cents a share, as compiled by First Call Corp. In the year-ago period, the company earned $3.7 million, or 19 cents a share, on revenue of $104 million. 

 In a bid to jump-start its lagging growth rate, Pacific said in its press release that it accelerated global expansion plans to include further European, Asian, and North and Latin American markets, and retail expansion plans to include additional ethnic marketing efforts and prepaid and travel services. 

 Nevertheless, the warning prompted a slew of analysts to lower their investment recommendations on Pacific shares Monday. Wolf cut her rating to neutral from buy, while BT Alex. Brown's Moore dropped his to buy from strong buy. 


Also lowering ratings were Credit Suisse First Boston Corp., to hold
from buy, and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, to outperform from strong buy.
   - Scott Eden; 201-938-5173



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  01-11-99



11:24 AM


Document dj00000020010826dv1b0096a




 HTE Dn -2: Co. Says Poor 4Q To Hurt Year Results >HTEI 

326 words
8 January 1999
18:59
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The value of HTE Inc.'s (HTEI) stock nose-dived Friday after the software maker said it expects to report lower-than-expected 1998 pretax profits of $2.2 million to $2.6 million. 

 Shares recently changed hands at 5 9/16, down 2 1/4, or 28.8%. 

 The Lake Mary, Fla., company said earlier in a prepared statement the profit warning reflects an expected fourth-quarter pretax loss of $5.1 million to $5.5 million. 

 "The revenues didn't come in nearly as close as they were hoping for," said Janney Montgomery Scott Inc. analyst Richard Jacobs. 

 HTE said lower revenue from license fees, higher fourth-quarter expenses due to the use of more outside service contractors and a terminated underwritten stock registration combined to hurt pretax results. 

 "Clearly management allowed expenses to get wildly out of control," Jacobs said. "Now, their challenge is to match expenses with revenues." 

 HTE expects 1998 revenues to rise nearly 50% to between $98 million and $98.8 million. License fee revenues rose more than 60% to between $43 million and $43.4 million. 

 Also, the company expects to record a first-quarter pretax restructuring charge of between $2 million and $2.5 million. 

 Jacobs sees restructuring and cost cutting as a positive move for the company. "But the burden is on management to prove to the shareholders they can cut costs and match spending with revenues," he said. 

 HTE has indicated that 1999 will be a good year with 30% revenue growth, said Jacobs, who has taken a wait-and-see stance on the company's forward-looking statements. 


HTE, which develops, markets, implements and supports software for
public-sector organizations and utilities, plans to report its
fourth-quarter and full-year results Feb. 11.
   -Amy Hughes; 201-938-5171



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  01-08-99



01:59 PM


Document dj00000020010826dv18006hj




 FOCUS-Texaco sees earnings shortfall, charges. 

 By David Chance 
581 words
8 January 1999
18:07
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 8 (Reuters) - Texaco Inc. on Friday joined a growing list of oil companies by warning that its fourth-quarter earnings would fall short of expectations amid the weakest oil prices in 12 years, poor refining margins and Asian currency losses. 

 Amid analyst forecasts that 1998 will show the biggest decline in oil company earnings since the 1980s, Texaco said it expected operating earnings of 13 to 16 cents per share in the fourth quarter. That is around half of analyst forecasts of 30 cents and way down from the 84 cents earned in the year ago quarter. 

 The fourth-largest U.S. oil company also said it would take $350 million in net charges in the fourth quarter to cover the effects of the dire industry conditions on the value of its oil and oil-product inventories, and the cost of a job-cut package. 

 "This past year was extremely difficult for the entire industry and first quarter 1999 appears to be equally challenging. However, Texaco will continue to effectively manage its business during this period of low energy prices," said Chief Financial Officer Patrick Lynch. 

 The announcement follows a profit warning from Phillips Petroleum Co., which said it may not break even in the fourth quarter and would take a $339 million charge. 

 "Everybody in the world is expecting those charges. I actually see it as a healthy thing," one analyst said. 

 Investors agreed, marking Texaco shares 50 cents higher at $54.94 by early Friday afternoon in trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Oil prices have started 1999 poorly, with benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude blend trading at just $13 a barrel, compared with an average of $14.45 in 1998 and a historical average of $19.02 for 1986-1998. 

 That prompted Texaco on Thursday to announce that it was slashing capital spending and accelerating a layoff programme. It will spend just $3.7 billion in 1999, down from a planned $4.3 billion for this year and $4.1 billion in 1998. The company said it was now clear that oil prices would not rebound to the $15 on which its earlier plans were based. 

 "The revised plan of $3.7 billion is based on a lower crude price premise, reflecting general industry consensus that crude oil prices will not rebound as previously expected," said Chairman and Chief Executive Peter Bijur. 

 The company also said it would carry out a plan to save $650 million in just one year, instead of two, and that 2,000 layoffs would take place in 1999 instead of next year. 

 The oil industry has been hit by a wave of job cuts - 6,000 from Royal Dutch/Shell Group alone - asset write-downs and lower spending from the likes of Conoco Inc., Phillips, Chevron Corp., Atlantic Richfield Co. and Unocal Corp. 

 The mega-merger between British Petroleum Co. Plc and Amoco Corp. to form BP Amoco Plc will result in at least 6,000 layoffs. Merger partners Exxon Corp. and Mobil Corp. will cut 9,000 jobs while slashing $1.5 billion from their combined capital budgets of $15 billion. 

 "I actually think of this as a very healthy thing," said the analyst, "Already production estimates from the 12 largest oil companies will cut one million barrels a day from supply." ((David Chance, New York Newsroom 212-859-1902, david.chance@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv180743k




 Borders Shares Tumble After Warning For Fiscal 1998 Results 

 By Amy Hughes, Staff Reporter 
367 words
7 January 1999
19:17
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Borders Group Inc.'s shares tumbled Thursday after the book seller said late Wednesday it expects to miss Wall Street's fiscal 1998 earnings expectations. 

 In afternoon trading, Borders' (BGP) New York Stock Exchange-listed shares were down $5.438, or 21%, at $19.625 on volume of 9.8 million shares, much heavier than the daily average of 897,000. 

 Borders put earnings for the year ending Jan. 25 at between $1.14 and $1.18 a share. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call was for $1.22 a share. In the year-ago quarter, Borders earned $80.2 million, or 98 cents a share, on revenue of $2.3 billion. 

 Borders cited stormy weather, which disrupted sales in the Midwest, and higher-than-expected gift certificate sales. Gift certificate sales, unlike merchandise sales, aren't reported until the checks are redeemed. 

 The profit warning prompted several investment firms to lower their investment ratings on the Ann Arbor, Mich.-based company. J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. analyst Danielle Turnof Fox lowered her rating to "market perform" from "buy," citing "deteriorating earnings visibility" and competition from heavyweights in the online retailing sector. 

 The company said it expects fourth-quarter same-store sales to rise between 2% and 2.5%. However, that would be below Fox's estimate of 4% growth and below the company's goal of between 4% and 5%, according to the analyst. 

 Goldman Sachs & Co. analyst David Bolotsky lowered his fiscal 1998 and 1999 earnings estimates to $1.16 from $1.22 a share and to $1.35 from $1.50 a share, respectively. Bolotsky also cut his rating to "market perform" from "market outperform". The analyst cited increased competition from Internet-based book sellers for Borders in 1999 and beyond. 

 Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. lowered its rating on Borders to "long-term neutral" from "buy", while keeping its "near-term buy" rating on the company. But ABN Amro Inc. upgraded its rating on Borders to "buy" from "market outperform". 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv1701o0r




 Late Buying Surge Boosted December Sales At Nation's Big Retailers 

1,114 words
7 January 1999
13:34
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The nation's major retailers reported improved December sales Thursday, helped by a big after-Christmas buying rush and seasonable weather. However, J.C. Penney Co. was a notable exception, as it disclosed worse-than-expected sales and issued a profit warning. 

 Consumers' shopping habits have evolved over the years as they discovered bargains are plentiful for those who wait, analysts said. Retailers have altered their strategies as a result, planning promotions to take advantage of after-Christmas traffic. That tactic paid off this year. "There was a lot of anxiety - but the consumer came through," said Smith Barney analyst Richard Church. 

 Church said the same trends that played out this holiday season should stay in place this year. Consumers are moving away from malls - the customary bastion of the national chains - and toward, as paradoxical as it may seem, the huge discount outlets as well as high-end and specialty retailers. Consumers, he said, "are comfortable shopping at Wal-Mart and Sachs alike." 

 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) said same-store sales - or those at stores open at least a year - rose 9.4% during December, which was better than the 7% advance expected by analysts and the company's own expectations for a 4% to 6% rise. Total sales for the nation's largest retailer climbed 16% to $19.11 billion. Same-store sales of the company's Sam's Club warehouse unit rose 11%, and total sales were up 13% to $2.86 billion. 

 Meanwhile, same-store sales at Kmart Corp. (KM) rose 4.2%, while total sales were up 6.2% to $5.49 billion. 

 However, Toys 'R' Us Inc. (TOY) said its same-store sales dropped 7% on a general weakness in the toy industry, the deflationary effect from sales of video hardware at lower prices, and sales of clearance merchandise relating as part of the company's inventory reduction program. Total sales were $4.4 billion, down just slightly from $4.5 billion a year earlier. 

 Toys 'R' Us also said its Babies 'R' Us division continued its trend of double-digit comparable-store sales increases, while comparable-store sales at Kids 'R' Us showed declines in the low-single digits for both the holiday season and the year-to-date. 

 Dayton Hudson Corp. (DH) said its same-store sales were up 6.5%, while total sales rose 12% to %5.26 billion. The company said sales in December were above plan at each of its divisions, with same-store sales rising 7% at Target, 5.2% at Mervyn's and 4.6% at department stores. 

 Federated Department Stores Inc. (FD) said its same-store sales advanced 5.7%, and total sales rose 4.4% to $2.87 billion. The company had expected same-store sales to rise only 2.5% to 3%, but analysts had been more bullish with targets of a 3% to 5.5% gain. 

 May Department Stores Co. (MAY) had a 4.4% increase in same-store sales, and an 8.9% rise in total sales to $2.65 billion. 

 Dillard's Inc. (DDS) said its same-store sales inched up 1%, while total sales jumped 26% to $1.45 billion. 

 Meanwhile, same-store sales at Sears Roebuck & Co. (S) slipped 0.3%, and total sales were down 0.9% at $4.52 billion. Total revenue fell 1.8% to $5.58 billion. However, Sears noted that its sales figures for December don't include results from its Western Auto unit, which it sold earlier this year. Discounting that factor, Sears said its total domestic store sales would have risen 1.2% in December. The retailer said it recorded solid sales of appliances and home electronics throughout the month. Women's special sizes, jewelry, cosmetics and fragrances also showed strong sales. 

 J.C. Penney (JCP) continued to struggle, as heavy promotions brought increased markdowns and combined with lower sales volume to cut gross margins. Same-store sales dropped 7.6%, while total revenue was down 4.3% at $4.45 billion. Particularly weak categories for the retailer were athletic footwear and apparel, and children's and men's sportswear. Penney noted that year-ago figures included the Thanksgiving weekend, but this year didn't. The results were slightly worse than the drop of 6% to 7% industry experts anticipated. 

 Penney said its JCPenney department-store sales fell 9.1% to $2.61 billion, while catalog sales were down 8% at $578 million. On the bright side, sales at the Eckerd drug stores rose 8.3% for the month. Penney also warned that fourth-quarter and 1998 earnings won't meet expectations, but said 1999 results should be better than currently expected. 

 Squeezed from the bottom by discount outlets and from the top by higher-end department stores as well as specialty retailers, Church said the national chains have suffered because "they have no clear niche with consumers." 

 Among other retailers reporting results Thursday: 

 - CVS Corp. (CVS) said same-store sales rose 13%, and total sales rose 16% to $1.74 billion. Pharmacy same-store sales climbed 19%, and Revco same-store sales were up 15%. 

 - Gap Inc. (GPS) said comparable-store sales rose 19%, while total sales soared 41% to $1.63 billion. 

 - Specialty clothing chain Limited Inc. (LTD) said same-store sales rose 4%, but total sales fell 2% to $1.84 billion. The company attributed the falling sales to its spinoff last May of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF). 

 - Home-improvement retailer Lowe's Cos. (LOW) said same-store sales climbed 11% for the month, and total sales jumped 24% to $1.31 billion. Same-store sales for large stores - those bigger than 80,000 square feet - rose 10% in December. The company also reiterated that this year it will begin reporting sales results on a quarterly basis, instead of monthly. 

 - Circuit City Stores Inc. (CC) said same-store sales in its Circuit City Group rose 11%. Total sales for the Circuit City Group rose 17% to $1.45 billion. Same-store sales in the CarMax Group (KMX) unit fell 4%, but total sales rose 40% to $110.5 million. 

 - Costco Cos. (COST) said same-warehouse sales rose 8% in December, and net sales rose 12% to $3.09 billion. 

 - Saks Inc. (SKS) said same-store sales rose 3%, with total sales up 12% to $1.07 billion. Figures have been restated to reflect the company's merger with Saks Holdings Inc. in September, and its merger with Carson Pirie Scott & Co. last January. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv1701nrx




 Borders Dn -2:Co. To Miss FY98 Net Views By At Least 4c/Shr 

418 words
7 January 1999
17:38
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Borders Group Inc.'s (BGP) shares tumbled 22% Thursday after the book seller said late Wednesday it expects to miss Wall Street's fiscal 1998 earnings expectations by at least 4 cents. 

 Borders put earnings for the year ending Jan. 25 between $1.14 and $1.18 a share, falling short of First Call Corp.'s consensus earnings estimate of $1.22. 

 Borders earned $80.2 million, or 98 cents a diluted share, on revenues of $2.3 billion for the year ended Jan. 25, 1998. 

 The profit warning prompted several investment firms, with one exception, early Thursday to lower their ratings on the Ann Arbor, Mich.-based company. 

 J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. analyst Danielle Turnof Fox lowered her rating on Borders to market perform from buy based on "deteriorating earnings visibility" and competition from heavyweights in the online book retailing sector. 

 The company said it expects fourth-quarter same-store sales to rise between 2% and 2.5%. 

 However, those comparison sales figures fall below Fox's estimate of 4% growth and below the company's goal of between 4% and 5%, according to the analyst's research note. 

 Borders cited higher-than-expected gift certificate sales for the falloff in growth and earnings per share because, unlike merchandise sales, gift certificate revenues aren't reported until the checks are redeemed, according to Fox's note. The company also cited stormy weather disrupting sales in the Midwest. 

 In a research note, Goldman Sachs & Co. analyst David Bolotsky indicated he lowered his fiscal 1998 and 1999 earnings estimates to $1.16 from $1.22 and to $1.35 from $1.50, respectively. 

 Bolotsky also cut his rating on the company's stock to market perform from market outperform. 

 The analyst cited increased competition from Internet book sellers for Borders in 1999 and beyond as motivating him to guide down his expectations for the company. 

 Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. lowered its rating on Borders to long-term neutral from buy, while keeping its near-term buy rating on the company. 

 But ABN Amro Inc. upgraded its rating on Borders to buy from market outperform. 


Borders' NYSE-listed shares were recently down 5 1/2, 21.9%, to 19
9/16 on volume of 9 million compared with average daily volume of
897,100.
   -Amy Hughes; 201-938-5171



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  01-07-99



12:38 PM


Document dj00000020010826dv17005vu




 Corporate News 
 Northrop Unveils Hit From Boeing Cuts --- Earnings for 4th Quarter and 1999 Are Dented 

A Wall Street Journal Europe Roundup
449 words
7 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
3
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Northrop Grumman Corp. unveiled $125 million in charges against fourth-quarter earnings and said 1999 profit will be 15% to 20% below Wall Street forecasts. 

 The aerospace and defense concern's share price tumbled in response, to $68.625 late in Wednesday's session on the New York Stock Exchange, down 6.3%, or $4.625. 

 Reduced deliveries of 747 aircraft fuselages to Boeing Co. dealt the main blow to earnings, with higher costs and testing of a new defense system also taking a toll. The fourth-quarter charges will reduce profit for the period by $1.18 a share, Northrop said, from estimates of $6.50 to $6.75 per share. 

 Of the charges, $105 million reflects Boeing's cutback in production of its 747 model, for which Northrop makes the 153-foot-long main fuselage section. Boeing said in early December that it would cut its commercial plane production 25% by 2000, and limit 747 production to one plane a month. The 747 is popular with Asian airlines that have experienced dramatic declines in traffic as the economies in that region have unraveled. 

 Northrop said the decrease in 747 production caused inefficiencies and that it is holding talks with Boeing over delays and related costs, which it expects to recover. 

 Delays in a series of tests on a joint defense program involving the British Ministry of Defense and the U.S. Special Forces led to a charge of $20 million, the company said. 

 The new charges come after Northrop said in August it would take a $60 million charge in 1998, $16 million of which it took in the third quarter. The rest, left for the fourth quarter, wasn't included in the charges announced Wednesday, a spokesman said. 

 Northrop's latest profit warning was less of a surprise to analysts than the fact that it was so long in coming. 

 "We've known since Boeing's announcement that it was going to affect Northrop's business," said Robert Friedman, an analyst with S&P Equity Group. 

 Other Boeing subcontractors had already factored the slackening demand into their guidance to analysts, said Paul Nisbet, a defense analyst with JSA Research. 

 "That's quite a whack, particularly since Boeing's actions were several weeks ago," Mr. Nisbet said. "They should have recognized this the second Boeing said production would drop." 

 Northrop's warning makes it the third aerospace company in about a month to break bad news to investors, following Boeing's announcement and news from Lockheed that fourth-quarter earnings would fall below expectations. 

Document wsje000020010830dv17000e4


 Phillips Announces Broad Layoff, Spending Cuts. 

670 words
7 January 1999
The Oil Daily
TOILDA
English
(c) 1999 Content and programming. CNBC/Dow Jones Business Video, a division of CNBC/Dow Jones Desktop Video, LLC.

 Phillips Petroleum Co. may have run the gamut in ugly tidings after announcing big job cuts, lower spending, poor reserve replacement and a profit warning on Wednesday. 

 Phillips, the eighth largest U.S. oil company according to EIG's Ranking the World's Top Oil Companies, said it will cut 1,400 jobs - or about one in 12 employees - in an effort to save $230 million this year. Most of the cuts will be in the upstream. About 850 will take place in the United States, including some 400 at the company's Bartlesville, Okla., headquarters. The remaining 550 will come overseas. 

 Phillips is the latest large integrated firm to announce substantial headcount reductions in the face of low oil prices. 

 With the exception of Exxon Corp., every integrated U.S. operator has now initiated layoffs or has announced plans for layoffs related to the oil price collapse (see table, p.4). 

 On the spending front, Phillips said capital investment will fall 30% to $1.47 billion in 1999, down from $2.11 billion a year ago. 

 Exploration and production operations will be hit hardest, allotted just $800 million in 1999 vs. $1.4 billion in 1998. 

 In a conference call Wednesday, Phillips Chief Executive Wayne Allen said exploration will be curtailed substantially in western Venezuela, where the company has interests in the Ambrosio and LaVela blocks, as well as in the Jade field in the North Sea. 

 Unfortunately, the bad news didn't stop at lower spending. 

 The company also warned that it will post a big fourth-quarter 1998 loss, due primarily to some $340 million in special charges. These include $222 million in oil price-related property impairments, $71 million in write-offs related to high-cost drilling at the Tyonek Deep prospect on the North Slope of Alaska and $46 million in severance costs associated with the layoffs. 

 More disheartening, Phillips said that - even without the charges - it expects only to break even or record a slight loss for the quarter. Consensus estimates from analysts had Phillips earning 25 cents/share in the three months. 

 Even more bad news came in the way of poor reserve-replacement figures. 

 Phillips said financial reporting guidelines dropped its 1999 reserve-replacement ratio to just 60%. Allen said that most of Phillips' marginal wells in the United States are uneconomic at current prices and reserves therefore could not be booked under Securities and Exchange Commission regulations. 

 And perhaps giving a glimpse into overall industry reserve-replacement rates for 1998, Allen said he expects similar disappointing results from producers with big operations in the United States. 

 Excluding the negative revision, reserve replacement would have amounted to about 80% last year. 

    Looking forward, Allen said he doesn't anticipate making further 

 job cuts in 1999, though he doesn't rule out the possibility. 

    "I can't say absolutely that we are at the bottom of the cycle," he 

 noted. 

    On potential mergers, he said Phillips is proud of its independent 

 history and that the cost-cutting measures do not make it a more attractive target. On the contrary, he believes predators would prefer targets with more room for cuts. 

 Gaining access to low-cost, low-risk reserves in the Middle East, specifically Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, is essential to surviving in the low oil-price environment, Allen said. 

 Paul Merolli 

 Layoffs by Top U.S. Operators 

 Oil Price-Related Job Cuts 


Company		     Number

Royal Dutch/Shell	 4,000

Texaco			2,400

Phillips		    1,400

Conoco			975

Atlantic Richfield	900

Amoco			 660

Amerada Hess		600

Occidental		  500

British Petroleum	 0

Exxon			 0

Chevron		     TBA

Mobil			 TBA

Total			 11,435



Merger-/Alliance-Related Job Cuts



Exxon Mobil		 10,000

BP Amoco	  at least 6,000

Diamond 66		   1,000

Total	     at least 17,000



Grand Total     at least 28,435



TBA = Layoffs to be announced.



Copyright 1999. The Oil Daily Co.



For more infomation, call 800-999-2718 (in U.S.) or



202-662-0700 (outside U.S.).


Document toilda0020010912dv17001aa




BUSINESS
BRIEFING

905 words
6 January 1999
The Denver Post
DNVR
WED1
C-02
English
Copyright © 1999 The Denver Post Corp. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

STORAGETEK STOCK STUMBLES: Storage Technology Corp., which issued a profit warning Tuesday, saw its shares fall more than 10 percent before they regained ground. For the quarter ended Dec. 25, the Louisville company said it expects net earnings of 50 cents to 55 cents a share, below the 73 cents a share predicted by analysts surveyed by First Call Corp. In the year-earlier quarter, StorageTek earned a stock-split-adjusted 73 cents a share. The company said in a news release that revenue from new products appears to have been insufficient to offset an expected decline in revenue and margin from older products. Shares of StorageTek, which had fallen by as much as $3.125 during the day, closed off 94 cents at $33.50 on the New York Stock Exchange.-Commerce Department said Tuesday. It is the first time the volatile series has posted six consecutive gains since 1993. It was the largest monthly increase since July.

 (AP) VERIO COMPLETES HIWAY ACQUISITION: Verio Inc., the Denver Internet service provider, said Tuesday it has closed the acquisition of Hiway Technologies Inc., a Web-site hosting company based in Florida. Hosting Web sites means maintaining the larger computers that hold Web sites. Hiway hosts more than 160,000 Web sites. The acquisitionn in cash and 3.14 million shares of Verio's common stock, valued at $71.4 million at Verio's closing price Tuesday of $22.75. Hiway also will receive options and warrants for another 1.78 million shares of Verio stock. The closing price was a renegotiation from theoriginal price of $330 million when the deal was announced in July. (The Denver Post) AMAZON.COM REPORTS TRIPLING OF SALES: Internet bookseller Amazon.com reported sharply higher sales for its fiscal fourth quarter, but its stock seesawed as investors disagreed over whether the figures were in line with their expectations. The Seattle-based company reported Tuesday that its quarterly sales more than tripled from a year ago to about $250 million, well above most forecasts. But some analysts were stillsaid's stock fell almost 10 percent in early trading before rebounding. Its shares closed up $6.181 at $124.50, reflecting a 3-for-1 stock split that took effect Tuesday. (AP) HAYES CORP. TO SHUT DOWN: Hayes Corp., a company that once dominated the personal-computer modem business, is shutting down after failing to find a buyer. Some 250 employees were laid off Monday, leaving only a handful from a peak of 1,200. The Atlanta company sought protection from creditors in October, in its second trip to Bankruptcy Court in the 1990s, and attempted a reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code as it talked to potential buyers. But its primary lender notified the company it wouldn't continue funding efforts to keep Hayes alive. (AP) VARI-L AWARDED PATENTS: Denver-based Vari-L Company Inc., which supplies parts to the wireless telecommunications industry, said Tuesday that it has been awarded two U.S. patents. One is for the silver board orthoganal mounted substrate resonator; the other is for the continually adjustable resonator. "This technology provides solutions to the wireless communications industry as it evolves to meet the challenges of eventual spectrum crowding and greater bandwidth demand for applications such as high-speed Internet access," Dave Sherman, Vari-L's president and CEO, said in a statement. (The Denver Post) NEW CEO AT KELLOGG: Kellogg Co.'s Arnold Langbo quit Tuesday as chief executive after failing to turn around the world's largest cereal maker, and will be replaced by President and Chief Operating Officer Carlos Gutierrez. Gutierrez, 45, takes over April 23. Langbo, 61, had said he wanted to retire in April 2000 and will remain chairman until then. Gutierrez, named to his current position in June, will join the company's board. Kellogg's new leader will try to boost profits by spending more on advertising, new products and promotions rather than by slashing expenses. The company, whose North American market share fell to 32 percent last year from 38 percent in 1991, is struggling as Quaker Oats Co., Ralcorp Holdings Inc. and other rivals lure shoppers with low-priced cereals. (Bloomberg) GENEVA NAMES PRESIDENT, CEO: Geneva Pharmaceuticals said Tuesday it has appointed David M. Hurley as president and chief executive officer of the Broomfield company, effective immediately. He replaces Charles T. Lay, who retired Dec. 31. Hurley comes to Geneva from Minneapolis-based Novartis Nutrition Corp., where he held the same titles. (The Denver Post) FDA APPROVES SPECTRANETICS TESTS: The Food and Drug Administration has given conditional approval for Spectranetics Corp. of Colorado Springs to begin testing the company's excimer laser angioplasty technology to treat restenosed stents in cardiac patients. Stents are metallicscaffolds implanted to support the walls of coronary arteries; in-stent restenosis occurs when a lesion or blockage forms within the stent. The randomized clinical study, which will involve 320 patients and up to 20 medical institutions, will evaluate tfromthe Food and Drug Administration to market four new products for the diagnosis and risk assessment of blood clotting disorders. Three of the new test kits cleared by the FDA detect antibodies to Beta 2 Glycoprotein I which are indicators of increased riauctioninterestrate of 4.545 percent with each $10,000 in face value selling for $9,561.70. Sales totaled $10 billion out of bids of $29.3 billion. (AP)

Document DNVR000020150820dv1600xcn




 Information Management Shares Fall 25% On Earnings Warning 

239 words
6 January 1999
23:31
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Shares of Information Management Associates Inc. tumbled Wednesday after the company said contract delays and higher expenses will drag fourth-quarter earnings below analysts' estimates. 

 The company makes software for telephone call centers. 

 Information Management shares (IMAA) fell $1.344, or 25%, to settle at $3.938 on volume of 463,000 shares; average daily volume is 25,000. 

 The mean estimate of four analysts surveyed by First Call was for earnings of 16 cents a share in the period. Company spokesman Bob Ventresca said he couldn't provide specific numbers because the company had yet to calculate the figures. Explaining the profit warning, he said "a number of prospective customers delayed their purchase decisions until after the close of the quarter." 

 Although "confident" the company will close "a number" of those delayed orders, Ventresca said he couldn't guarantee that Information Management will recover all of its lost sales after the fourth quarter, which ended Dec. 31. 

 The Shelton, Conn.-based company probably won't give specific fourth-quarter guidance before it releases financial results for that period, scheduled for sometime in February, Ventresca said. 

 The profit warning prompted at least one investment firm to reduce its investment rating of the company as BT Alex. Brown Inc. cut the stock to "market perform" from "buy." 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv1601nkc




 Soft-Drink Firms Seen Losing Fizz In Quarter As Brewers Tap Profits 

 By Nikhil Deogun, Staff Reporter 
774 words
6 January 1999
21:41
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 ATLANTA -(Dow Jones)- Major soft-drink companies, hurt by overseas economic turmoil and continued price discounting in the U.S., are expected to post poor earnings in the fourth quarter. 

 But in a reversal from previous trends, large U.S. brewers, notably Anheuser-Busch Cos. (BUD), should benefit from modest volume growth and a better pricing environment. 

 "The world is a little upside down," said Doug Lane, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Co. "The big, global consumer companies, like in soft drinks, have run into difficult times because of the difficult economic environment. But the beer companies, which have been pretty average performers, have seen the fundamentals of the business getting better and are not as exposed to the overseas situation." 

 As a result, Anheuser-Busch's earnings should rise 10% to about $161 million, or 33 cents a share, from $146.8 million, or 30 cents a share, a year ago, prior to an accounting change, analysts say. And analysts are predicting better times for the maker of Budweiser. "You'll see pricing and volume accelerate in 1999," said Andrew Conway, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. 

 Among the soft-drink companies, Coca-Cola Co. (KO) is expected to report fourth-quarter net income of $600 million, or 24 cents a share, a 27% drop from 33 cents a share a year ago, as economic conditions damp international growth. PepsiCo Inc.'s (PEP) bottom line, hurt by higher marketing costs and overseas weakness, is projected to decline about 21% to $349 million, or 23 cents a share, versus $446 million, or 29 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. 

 Cash flow at Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE) is expected to improve but the world's largest bottler will still post a loss of about $37 million, or nine cents a share. In the year-ago quarter, the company reported a loss of $19 million, or five cents a share. 

 "The soft-drink industry isn't ending 1998 with a pop," said Michael Branca, an analyst at Lehman Brothers. 

 Coca-Cola, based in Atlanta, already issued a profit warning last month, saying, "World-wide economic uncertainty and volatility continue to impact the company's volume and earnings during the quarter." The company's projection of earnings per share of 24 cents to 25 cents was far worse than analysts had anticipated. Meanwhile, unit case volume, considered a key measure of the underlying business, will rise a modest 2% to 4%, excluding the effect of fewer shipping days in the quarter. 

 For the beverage behemoth, usually the model of predictable earnings growth, "it's a disappointing end to what has been a disappointing year," Branca said. 

 Since Coke derives 75% of its profit from overseas markets, it has been hurt by consumers' reduced purchasing power, which makes even inexpensive soft drinks seem like a luxury is some markets. Furthermore, weak foreign currencies have also severely hurt Coke's bottom line. 

 PepsiCo, based in Purchase, N.Y., has a much smaller international business than Coca-Cola, so it won't be as severely affected by the overseas economic crisis. However, PepsiCo has spent heavily to launch Pepsi One, its new diet cola, and Wow!, the line of Frito-Lay chips made with the fat substitute olestra. In addition, Pepsi's spending on the year 2000 computer problem is expected to have accelerated in the fourth quarter. 

 "From an earnings standpoint, it's a disappointing quarter for Pepsi," said Marc Cohen an analyst at Goldman Sachs & Co. "That being said, it's reflective of significant investment in both beverages and snacks." 

 Cohen noted that he is "particularly encouraged" that the investment appears to be paying off in the domestic beverage division, where he says volume may increase as much as 8% in the quarter. 

 Profits, though, will be another story. William Pecoriello, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., predicts that operating profit for Pepsi's large North American beverage unit will decline 8% to 9% to about $241 million. Pepsi's international beverage losses will widen to about $70 million to $80 million, driven by losses in Russia, according to Pecoriello, who is predicting a potential write-down of the Russian operations. 

 At Frito-Lay's North American division, operating profit should increase 3% to $445 million as volume growth improves. International snack profit is expected to be flat at $122 million, mostly because of weakness in Brazil. 

 - Nikhil Deogun; 201-938-5099 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv1601nha




 Info Mgmt Stk -2: Co. 'Confident' Will Close Delayed Orders 

328 words
6 January 1999
21:41
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Shares of Information Management Associates Inc. (IMAA) tumbled 25% Wednesday after the company said contract delays and higher expenses will curb fourth-quarter earnings, pulling its bottom line below analysts' estimates. 

 Company spokesman Bob Ventresca said he couldn't provide specific numbers since the company itself had yet to calculate the damage. 

 Explaining the profit warning, he said, "a number of prospective customers delayed their purchase decisions until after the close of the quarter." 

 Although "confident" the company will close "a number" of those delayed orders, Ventresca said he couldn't guarantee that Information Management will recoup all of its lost sales after the fourth quarter, which ended Dec. 31. 

 The Shelton, Conn., software developer, specializing in customer-interaction systems for call centers, probably won't give specific fourth-quarter guidance before it releases financial results for that period, slated for sometime in February, Ventresca said. 

 After the market closed Tuesday, Information Management issued a press release saying it also expects full-year results to fall shy of expectations. 

 According to First Call Corp., a consensus of analysts' estimates predicted the company would earn 16 cents a share in the fourth quarter and 40 cents in 1998. In 1997, the company posted earnings of 23 cents for the quarter and 37 cents for the year. 

 The profit warning prompted at least one investment firm to reduce its rating of the company's shares Wednesday, as BT Alex. Brown Inc. cut the stock to market perform from buy. 

 Information Management shares ended trading Wednesday at 3 15/16, down 1 11/32, or 25.4%, after earlier falling as low as 3 9/16, grazing their 52-week low of 3 1/4, set Oct. 8. Nasdaq trading volume reached 463,300, compared with average daily volume of 63,300. 


   - Scott Eden; 201-938-5173



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  01-06-99



04:41 PM


Document dj00000020010826dv1600656




 Soft-Drink Cos. Seen Losing Fizz In 4Q As Brewers Tap Pfts 

 By Nikhil Deogun 
541 words
6 January 1999
19:41
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 ATLANTA (Dow Jones)--Major soft-drink companies, hurt by overseas economic turmoil and continued price discounting in the U.S., are expected to post poor earnings in the fourth quarter. 

 But in a reversal from previous trends, large U.S. brewers, notably Anheuser-Busch Cos. (BUD), should benefit from modest volume growth and a better pricing environment. 

 "The world is a little upside down," said Doug Lane, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Co. "The big, global consumer companies, like in soft drinks, have run into difficult times because of the difficult economic environment. But the beer companies, which have been pretty average performers, have seen the fundamentals of the business getting better and are not as exposed to the overseas situation." 

 As a result, Anheuser-Busch's earnings should rise 10% to about $161 million, or 33 cents a share, from $146.8 million, or 30 cents a share a year ago, prior to an accounting change, analysts say. And analysts are predicting better times for the maker of Budweiser. "You'll see pricing and volume accelerate in 1999," said Andrew Conway, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. 

 Among the soft-drink companies, Coca-Cola Co. (KO) is expected to report fourth-quarter net income of $600 million, or 24 cents a share, a 27% drop from 33 cents a share a year ago, as economic conditions damp international growth. PepsiCo Inc.'s (PEP) bottom line, hurt by higher marketing costs and overseas weakness, is projected to decline about 21% to $349 million, or 23 cents a share versus $446 million, or 29 cents a share in the year-ago quarter. 

 Cash flow at Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE) is expected to improve but the world's largest bottler will still post a loss of about $37 million, or 9 cents a share. In the year-ago quarter, the company reported a loss of $19 million, or 5 cents a share. 

 "The soft-drink industry isn't ending 1998 with a pop," said Michael Branca, an analyst at Lehman Brothers. 

 Coca-Cola, based in Atlanta, already issued a profit warning last month, saying, "World-wide economic uncertainty and volatility continue to impact the company's volume and earnings during the quarter." The company's projection of earnings per share of 24 cents to 25 cents was far worse than analysts had anticipated. Meanwhile, unit case volume, considered a key measure of the underlying business, will rise a modest 2% to 4%, excluding the effect of fewer shipping days in the quarter. 

 For the beverage behemoth, usually the model of predictable earnings growth, "it's a disappointing end to what has been a disappointing year," Branca said. 

 Since Coke derives 75% of its profit from overseas markets, it has been hurt by consumers' reduced purchasing power, which makes even inexpensive soft drinks seem like a luxury is some markets. Furthermore, weak foreign currencies have also severely hurt Coke's bottom line. 

 "Coke in the fourth quarter is being buffeted by two powerful storms: foreign currencies and the slowdown in Asia and Latin America," Conway said. 

 (MORE) DOW JONES NEWS  01-06-99 

 02:41 PM 

Document dj00000020010826dv16005ti




 Aspect Telecom shares hit by Q4 warning. 

376 words
6 January 1999
16:11
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 6 (Reuters) - Shares of Aspect Telecommunications Corp. slid nearly 30 percent in early trading on Wednesday after the calling centre software company warned fourth quarter earnings would disappoint the Street. 

 Shares of Aspect, based in San Jose, Calif., were among the top Nasdaq losers, falling five to 12-1/16 in heavy trading. 

 Aspect said after the market close Tuesday that a shortfall in its North American business was to blame. Fourth quarter earnings would come in at about $0.12 a share on a diluted bases, plus or minus $0.02. That is well below Wall Street's expectation of $0.21 a share, according to First Call. 

 A chorus of Wall Street firms issued negative comments after the profit warning. 

 Morgan Stanley cut Aspect's rating to outperform from strong buy and slashed profit estimates for the fourth quarter this year as well as for 1999 and 2000. CIBC Oppenheimer knocked the stock's rating down to hold from strong buy, according to a market source. 

 Piper Jaffray cut Aspect to neutral from buy and lowered profit estimates, saying Aspect's growth rate is now pegged at 25 to 30 percent, down from 30-35 percent. 

 Aspect immediately announced a change in the management of the North American business, naming Linda Johnstone as interim head of sales in North America, succeeding Larry Miller, who is leaving the company. 

 Johnstone has been vice president of Aspect's Europe, Middle East and Africa region for the past two years, working out of the company's London offices. 

 Piper Jaffrey analyst Edward Jackson said the departure of Miller, in addition to the pending departure of another executive, means more management changes are on the horizon as the company rebuilds its management team. 

 Jackson said although the company has long-term value, near-term uncertainty will mean trouble. "We believe the stock will continue to remain depressed for the next several months," he said in a research note. 

 The earnings estimates given by the company include an adjusted writeoff in conjunction with the company's purchase of Voicetek. 

 ((J. Westhoven, Wall Street Desk +1 212 859 1881, email jennifer.westhoven@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv16077lo


 News 
 Spyglass warns of losses, against expectations 

 Angela Soane 
158 words
5 January 1999
Newswire (VNU)
VNUN
English
Copyright (c) 1999 VNU Business Publications Ltd.; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 Internet software developer Spyglass said yesterday its expects to post a loss for its first quarter results, contrary to analyst forecasts. Analysts had predicted a profit of one cent per share for the period ending 31 December, 1998.Spyglass now anticipates a loss of between 16 cents and 14 cents per share, compared to a loss of 28 cents per share for the same quarter last year. Spyglass, which originally developed the Mosaic browser and now makes software for Internet enabled devices, said the anticipated loss was caused by poor technology licensing revenues and the failure of several significant transactions to close in the recent quarter. The company said revenue for the first quarter will bebetween $4.3 million and $4.7 million, with the final financial results to be released on 20 January. On announcement of the profit warning, shares of Spyglass fell $7 to close at $15. 

Document vnun000020010830dv15000gz


 Conoco, Halliburton  Cut  Staff - Companies Blame Low Oil Prices. 

478 words
4 January 1999
Natural Gas Week
NGASW
5
English
(c) 1999 Energy Intelligence Group. All rights reserved

 Conoco Inc. became the latest U.S. major petroleum company to announce job cuts and lower capital spending plans last week, following oil service behemoth Halliburton Co., which also announced layoffs and issued a foreboding profit warning. 

 Houston-based Conoco, the seventh largest U.S. oil company according to EIG's Ranking The World's Top Oil Companies, and the 12th largest gas producer (1.3 Bcfd) in the United States, according to The World Gas Handbook, said it will cut 975 jobs, or about 6% of its worldwide staff, in an effort to save an estimated $60 million a year. 

 "We are expediting these plans to position the company to deal with the lingering problem of low crude oil prices," said CEO Archie Dunham. 

 The move will result in Conoco taking a $50 million (8 cents/share) after-tax charge to fourth-quarter earnings. 

 Conoco said the moves would largely affect its upstream business. 

 Most job cuts by major oil companies including Atlantic Richfield Co., Texaco Inc. and Chevron Corp. have centered on the upstream, where huge increases in capital spending in recent years have called for greater manpower. Subsequent pullbacks in spending following more than a year of low oil prices has resulted in numerous layoffs in majors' exploration and production units and in the independent producer sector. 

 Conoco will reduce its 1999 capital budget by about $500 million, or 21%, from 1998 levels, to $1.8 billion. Most majors have said they will reduce spending closer to 10%. 

 Conoco said the big cut resulted from the completion of several major projects in 1998 as well as the forecast for low oil prices in 1999. 

 The spending reduction will be entirely directed toward upstream activities, which will be allotted $1.3 billion in 1999. 

 Dunham said the budget should facilitate oil and gas production growth of 6% in 1999 and that the cutbacks would not affect the company's long-term growth profile. Several analysts, including Schroder & Co.'s Michael Mayer, tout Conoco as the U.S. major with the best long-term production outlook. 

 Halliburton said it would cut 2,750 jobs, bringing the 1998 total job cuts to 10,850, or more than 10% of its worldwide staff. The company said the latest round was entirely related to low oil prices. 

 Most of the new firings will occur in Halliburton's Energy Services Group and be completed in the first quarter of 1999. 

 The cuts will result in a $24 million after-tax charge to fourth-quarter earnings, which will come in well below analysts' estimates, according to Halliburton. 

 It expects fourth-quarter operating income to be 19 cents-21 cents/share, compared with the First Call Corp. average estimates of 36 cents/share. 

 - Paul Merolli. 

 (c) 1999 Energy Intelligence Group. All rights reserved. 

Document ngasw00020010908dv14000on

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))   Date01/01/1999 to 01/31/1999   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectCorporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found44   Timestamp27 March 2018 8:44  
 Page 10 of 10     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

