 
•	  Bitter taste for Tate & Lyle as US problems prompt warning. 
•	  Profit Recovery Expects To Miss Earnings Estimates In Next Two Quarters 
•	  Danish shares seen falling, financials in focus. 
•	  Tate & Lyle Pft Warning Triggers Forecast Cuts,Shr Slide 
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  NEWSMAKER-Dimon finally to run his own show at Bank One. 
•	 Timberline Software Shares Plunge On 1st-Quarter  Profit Warning
•	  Suspense over as deal ends bra wars. 
•	  Sara Lee wins bra battle. 
•	  FOCUS - Lara Croft caught in games war crossfire. 
•	  MONEYLINE 
•	 E.W. Blanch shares down 50 pct on  profit warning .
•	 (REPEAT)-E.W. Blanch issues Q1  profit warning .
•	 E.W. Blanch issues steep Q1  profit warning .
•	  Corel Still Sees Linux Revenue $20-$30 Million In FY2000 
•	  U.S. stocks quiet in Europe, await Fed rate vote. 
•	 Federal-Mogul Corp. laying off 1,500 workers; Engine seals and bearings manufacturer closing 2 plants, 23 warehouses to  cut  costs after large acquisitions
•	  Major Auction Houses Go Under the Hammer 
•	  FOCUS-Reckitt sets growth targets for 2000. 
•	  MONEYLINE; Oracle`s CEO 
•	  MONEYLINE 
•	  U.S. stocks seen opening lower, London traders say. 
•	  Savannah Morning News, Ga., Investing Column 
•	 BRIEFING
•	 Dial's  profit warning  helps deflate Dow; Nasdaq is flat
•	 Stocks sink a bit, ending tough week; Dial follows P&G's  profit warning  with its own, hurting consumer sector
•	  MONEYLINE 
•	  Reckitt profits set to dip, merger on track. 
•	  Quintiles falls after earnings warning. 
•	  FOCUS-Admiral's "gradual recovery" miffs market. 
•	 BRIEFING
•	 Dow suffers 374-point free fall P&G  profit -dive  warning  frightens investors
•	 Dow plunges nearly 375 points; P&G falls 31% as  profit warning  spurs sell-off
•	  Market Report - Energy sector tumbles as price pressure rises. 
•	  Old Economy loses another round 
•	 P&G embodies old-line stocks' woes with 31% slump: Surprise  profit warning : Accounts for 136 of Dow's 374-point plunge
•	 Procter & Gamble stock plummets on  profit warning : Drags down DJ index: Consumer products giant cites rising oil, pulp and paper costs
•	  FFBN Financials Wrap: Financials Drop In Tandem With  Market 
•	 FFBN Realty Wrap:Factory Outlet, Mall REITs Push  Decline
•	  Hemorrhage in P.& G. Share Price Drags Down the Market 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-MSDW cuts Unilever to "outperform". 
•	  U.S. stocks to rebound at open after P&G warning. 
•	  Unilever claws back some of Tuesday losses. 
•	  Sasol up in slick of U.S. oil share rally. 
•	  U.S. blue chips recover modestly, Nasdaq ends higher. 
•	  CRASH FEARS AS DOW JONES TAKES A PLUNGE. 
•	 P&G profit woes pull down Dow
•	  Entertainment hardy despite market tumble.(Brief Article) 
•	 FFBN Realty Wrap:Factory Outlet, Mall REITs Push  Decline
•	  FFBN Financials Wrap: Financials Drop In Tandem With  Market 
•	  MONEYLINE; CNNfn 
•	  P&G leads blue chip losses, Microsoft lifts Nasdaq. 
•	  Nasdaq falls prey to Dow's drop after striking 5,000. 
•	  Nasdaq falls prey to Dow's drop after striking 5,000. 
•	  Dow falls to lowest in nearly a year - Nasdaq also hit. 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-DLJ cuts Procter & Gamble . 
•	  Sterling rebounds vs dollar as Dow drops sharply. 
•	  Nasdaq crosses 5,000 - Dow crumbles on P&G warning. 
•	  Big US drug stocks fall with Dow, biotechs slump. 
•	 P&G stock hammered after surprise  profit warning .
•	  FOCUS - Kimberly,Colgate comfortable with Q1 estimates. 
•	 P&G stock hammered after surprise  profit warning .
•	  FOCUS - UK wholesale price worries hit power sector. 
•	  MONEYLINE 



 Bitter taste for Tate & Lyle as US problems prompt warning. 

 By Saeed Shah. 
535 words
30 March 2000
The Independent - London
IND
20
English
(c) 2000 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way.

 TATE & LYLE, the sugar and food ingredients producer, yesterday warned that the poor returns from the US market would hit profits and that the unit may be sold off. Shares in the 100-year-old sugar refiner dropped on the warning and analysts said the company could be vulnerable to a bid, possibly from Cargill, the giant US commodities trader. 

 One analyst said: "This is another disappointment. I'm surprised the shares did not fall further. They are at the wrong end of the commodity cycle and everything is going against them right now." 

 The company's shares closed down 10p at 222p, having been off 37p - at a 10-year low - earlier in the day. The shares have dropped from 479.5p since November. 

 The company said it was issuing the warning as conditions had deteriorated "significantly" since it reported full-year results last November. It said that, as a result, pre-tax profit for the six months to 25 March was expected to fall "somewhat below" the #93m achieved for the period last year. 

 US sugar selling prices were at their lowest level since 1979 because of an oversupply of beet and cane sugar, following unusually large crops, it said 

 "A fundamental review of the strategic options is well under way" for the US sugar operations and new management team was in place, it added. 

 A spokesman for Tate & Lyle said the company would consider exiting the US sugar market altogether or take part in sector consolidation. He said the US government's attempts to regulate the sugar market had led to the oversupply. 

 US sugar accounts for about a third of Tate & Lyle's North American activities, the rest made up by cereals, non-sugar sweeteners, starch and a Canadian business. North America provided #1.77bn of the company's #4.23bn turnover for the year ended 25 September 1999. 

 Other difficulties spelt out by Tate & Lyle yesterday included higher costs in its US high-fructose corn syrup business, a treated starch product that is used in place of sugar. 

 The company also said that the strength of sterling was likely to reduce UK margins this year, though European sales performed well during the first half. It added that sales in the rest of the world continued to be hit by very depressed market conditions, which showed no signs of improving. 

 Tate & Lyle said that the strike at its Brooklyn Refinery, one of three cane-sugar operations in the US, was ongoing, though it remains operational. 

 The company said that its review of assets continued, with more agricultural businesses in particular likely to be sold off. During the six months to 25 March, #90m worth of businesses were sold. 

 ABN AMRO, the house broker, yesterday cut its forecasts for pre-tax profits for this year by 7.4 per cent to #200m, from #216m. In November, the group reported a 35 per cent jump in full-year pre-tax profits to #223m. 

 (c) Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited 2000. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way. 

Document ind0000020010811dw3u00n80




 Profit Recovery Expects To Miss Earnings Estimates In Next Two Quarters 

507 words
30 March 2000
21:45
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 ATLANTA -(Dow Jones)- Shares of Profit Recovery Group International Inc. tumbled Thursday after the company said it expects earnings and revenue to fall below Wall Street's expectations for both the first and second quarters and after it restated lower results reported for fourth-quarter and full-year 1999. 

Profit Recovery Group (PRGX) announced the restatement and issued the profit warning late Wednesday. 

 The company, a provider of accounts-payable and recovery-audit services, said it expects to post first-quarter earnings of four cents a share. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial is for first-quarter earnings of seven cents a share. 

 Profit Recovery expects to report first-quarter revenue of about $81 million to $82 million. The company said analysts expect it to report first-quarter revenue of about $86 million. 

 Profit Recovery cited a series of strikes by government tax workers in France for the expected results. The company said it lowered expectations mainly because of a revenue shortfall in its French tax recovery-auditing division because of the strikes, which took place in March. 

 The French strikes deferred the processing of tax filings, including the refund claims filed by the company's tax division on behalf of its clients. As a result, the tax division's projected revenue contribution is expected to be reduced by about $4 million to $5 million in the first quarter, and by $2 million to $3 million in the second quarter. 

 This is likely to cut Profit Recovery's first-quarter earnings by about three cents a share and its second-quarter earnings by about two cents a share. 

 For the year-ago first quarter, Profit Recovery reported earnings of $2.49 million, or nine cents a diluted share, on revenue of $58 million. 

 The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial is for second-quarter earnings of 28 cents a share, which the company also expects to miss. 

 For the year-ago second quarter, the company posted earnings of $7.13 million, or 25 cents a share, on revenue of $71.7 million. 

 Profit Recovery also said it has reduced fourth-quarter and year-end 1999 revenue and earnings per share by $1.4 million and two cents, respectively, compared with results it announced Feb. 16. As a result, the company restated fourth-quarter and full-year revenue to $103.5 million and $349.6 million, respectively. Net earnings per share for the fourth quarter and full year were restated to 29 cents a share and 79 cents a share, excluding one-time items, respectively. 

 Back in November, Profit Recovery bought 89% of Groupe AP, a French tax-audit firm, for about $30 million in cash and shares. The company said Groupe AP would operate under Profit Recovery's Groupe Alma unit, its existing Paris-based tax-audit company. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dw3u01duk




 Danish shares seen falling, financials in focus. 

351 words
29 March 2000
08:01
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

     COPENHAGEN, March 29 (Reuters) - Danish share prices were 

 seen trickling lower in a cautious market Wednesday following 

 overnight declines on Wall Street and amid expectations of a 

 generally weaker tone in European equities markets. 

     It was difficult to predict the impact on Danish equities of 

 Goldman Sachs top analyst Abby Joseph Cohen's reduction of the 

 equity exposure in her model portfolio to 65 percent from 70 

 percent, Copenhagen dealers said. 

     "I think Wednesday will be a day of quiet declines with 

 financial stocks moving into focus," one dealer said. 

     Cohen repeated her overweight position in financials and on 

 the domestic front, biggest bank Danske  on Tuesday 

 signalled an expansionist strategy shift by defining northern 

 Europe, and not just the Nordic countries, as its home market. 

 Copenhagen's all-share index rose 1.3 percent on Tuesday to 

 a record high of 896.59 points and the blue-chip KFX top-20 

 index rose 0.8 percent to finish at 299.80 points. 

     Pharmaceuticals group Novo Nordisk    and shipping 


and oil group A.P. Moeller	led the advance.



    Both were likely to be in focus anew on Wednesday, Novo



because pharmaceuticals was another sector rated overweight by



Cohen, and Moeller after nine OPEC members agreed to raise



output by seven percent and before its own 1999 results due



later this week.



    One dealer said the oil production increase was unlikely to



dent Moeller shares ahead of the earnings report.



    The Dow Jones fell 0.8 percent and the Nasdaq fell 2.5



percent. But Tokyo's Nikkei rose 1.6 percent to a 40-month high.



    In New York overnight, KFX-heavyweight Tele Danmark's



   share    closed at the equivalent of 738 crowns



compared with 735 in Copenhagen.



    Novo's wall Street share    rose to finish at 1,098



crowns, or 1.5 percent below its home bourse close.



    Sugar, food ingredients and flexible packaging maker Danisco



 - a recent winner in the old economy category -



might come under pressure following a profit-warning by UK sugar



producer Tate & Lyle  .



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw3t03ds1




 Tate & Lyle Pft Warning Triggers Forecast Cuts,Shr Slide 

 By Lucy Farndon 
523 words
29 March 2000
11:57
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)- A profit warning Wednesday by Tate & Lyle PLC (U.TAT) prompted analysts to cut their forecasts for the sugar producer and sent its shares spiraling to an 11-year low. 

 Analysts said the shares and forecasts likely will fall further, with oversupply in the U.S. sugar market and a need for sector consolidation leaving the company little choice but to cut costs and make disposals. 

 "It's really rather depressing," said one analyst, who declined to be named. "All they can do is plod on and continue to focus the business down." 

 The company earlier said its profit before tax, reorganization costs and exceptional items for the six months ending March 25 will fall "somewhat below" the GBP93 million posted in 1999. 

 It blamed deteriorating conditions in the U.S. sugar market, with an oversupply of beet and cane sugar driving U.S. selling prices to their lowest level since 1979. 

 Tate & Lyle said a fundamental review of the strategic options is under way and a new management team is in place. It said reorganization costs for the period would total GBP11 million. 

 At 1036 GMT, the shares were down 16.75 pence, or 7.2%, at 215.25 pence, after earlier touching 195 pence. 

 Most analysts said they see little light at the end of the tunnel, and forecast further share price weakness, particularly since the company isn't a particularly attractive bid target. 

 ABN Amro, brokers to the company, Wednesday cut its profit forecast for the year ended March 25 to GBP200 million from GBP216 million, after exceptional charges. It also cut next year's forecast to GBP200 million from GBP235 million, but said it remains a buyer of the stock. 

 Other analysts said they think forecasts may fall further, but said the situation is confused by the group's decision to change its year end from September to March, and whether exceptional items are included in the forecasts. 

 "Exceptionals are flying everywhere...but the answer is profit forecasts are going down," said one analyst, who is downgrading his forecast for the year to March 2001 to GBP210 million from GBP241 million, before exceptional items. 

 "There is downside risk...this forecast may be cut further," he said, noting that downgrades on Tate & Lyle have been happening for the past five years. 

 Another analyst said he was looking for around GBP200 million pretax profit for this year and next. "Everyone knew the problems they were facing, but people had not got round to lowering their forecasts," he said. 

 While there is great need for consolidation in the sector, antitrust laws will prevent mergers between Tate & Lyle and other sugar companies, so the group may be left at the mercy of a financial buyer, he added. 

 Tate & Lyle said it has made "good progress" in consolidating its U.K. activities and has used the proceeds from disposals in the U.S., Poland and other areas to cut debt. 

 -By Lucy Farndon; +44-171-842-9273; 

 lucy.farndon@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010805dw3t01lqu


 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Jeff Yastine, Susie Gharib 
4,767 words
28 March 2000
00:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 SUSIE GHARIB: OPEC`s oil ministers agree to hike production. The question is, by how much? The answer might leave American drivers fuming. Good evening, evening. I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. 

 JEFF YASTINE: And I`m Jeff Yastine in Miami. Paul Kangas is off tonight. Microsoft is the biggest point loser on the Dow, on concerns about the government`s antitrust case. We`ll update it. Meanwhile, the blue chips as a whole drop about 86 points. The NASDAQ loses about 5. Then, if you want some worldwide wealth in your portfolio? One professional investor says buy American. 

 YASTINE: No fuel for Wall Street today: stocks ran out of gas as the Dow lost about 87 points, and the NASDAQ slipped 4 1/2. One of the concerns: will OPEC ministers meeting in Vienna today and tomorrow raise oil production levels? Erika Miller looks at what opening the spigot could mean for oil prices. 

 ERIKA MILLER, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Oil ministers have reached an agreement to boost output. The only question is the amount of the increase. 

 STEVEN PFEIFER, OIL ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: If, at the end of the day, when you go through all the numbers, OPEC provides an increase in production of somewhere in the range of a million barrels a day, we think that will take some of the upward pressure off of oil prices, which we`ve seen. 

 MILLER: Proposals call for raising the production quota by up to 1.7 million barrels a day. At the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil futures edged lower, but not by much. Traders say higher output has been widely expected for quite some time. 

 RICHARD SCHAEFFER, DIRECTOR OF GLOBAL ENERGY FUTURES, ABN AMRO BANK: The trading is less heated than usual, actually. It`s kind of like buy the rumor, sell the fact. That is pretty much that old saying in securities really plays here. 

 MILLER: Crude oil prices have fallen sharply from their highs, hit just a few weeks ago. But analysts say it would take an increase of at least two million barrels a day to meet rising demand and get inventories back to normal levels. As a result, many analysts are expecting crude oil prices to remain comfortably above $20 a barrel. That`s bad news for motorists, who have seen prices at the pump hit nearly $2 a gallon in many parts of the country. That`s prompted the U.S. to put the heat on OPEC to open up the taps. But analysts say OPEC also wants to see prices edge down to a more sustainable level. 

 PFEIFER: OPEC wants to make sure that they don`t see prices spike too much higher. We did see oil prices a couple of weeks ago move up above $30 a barrel. They want to be concerned about the oil price moving too high, to the point to where it starts to choke off demand. 

 MILLER: But the organization has already signaled that it plans to proceed cautiously with any cuts. Plus, if prices don`t go down fast enough, the group has the option of raising output levels later this summer. Erika Miller, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York. 

 GHARIB: Besides oil prices, investors were coping with so many other issues today; testimony by Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, speculation about Microsoft`s future, and the impact of earnings on stocks. All this led to a choppy day of trading right from the opening bell. The Dow started off in negative territory, but the NASDAQ was in the plus column. Microsoft was the main culprit and we will have more on that in just a few minutes. But sizable losses in Microsoft were offset by big gains in IBM stock, thanks to an upgrade from Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. Throughout the morning, trading in the Dow seesawed between positive and negative, but by noon, it was down 42 points and the NASDAQ was up by 31. During the lunch hour, there was little change in the overall trend: the blue chips continued to fall out of favor, and investors bought into technology stocks on the belief that they will show strong first quarter earnings. The Dow posted losses of 73 points, the NASDAQ was stable at + 25. But in the late afternoon, both indexes turned negative: a triple-digit loss for the Dow, and the NASDAQ slipped by 5. Traders said some of it was nervousness about comments from Greenspan at the Senate, and some of it was just old-fashioned profit-taking. In the last hour of trading, the damage was minimized, but the lack of leadership kept both indexes in the doldrums. By the closing bell, the Dow had lost about 87 points to 11025. And the NASDAQ failed again once today to close above the 5000 mark. It slipped 4 1/2 points to 4958. 

 Big board volume was very light today: only 883 million shares, down quite a bit from Friday`s level. Transports down more than 20 points. 

 Utilities up 3 1/2. 

 And the Closing Tick, a bearish -261. 

 The S&P 500, the 100, and the MidCap all backed off from their record levels on Friday. 

 And as for the CRB Index, it was down just a fraction. 

 The NYSE Composite fell more than 3 points. 

 The Value Line Index down 2 3/4. 

 The Russell slipped a fraction. 

 And the Wilshire slipped from its record high, down almost 48 points. 

 Well, the bond market drifted today. There was little impact from news today that existing home sales rose 6.7 percent in February, and little reaction to those comments from Greenspan on Capitol Hill. And traders were preparing mostly for an auction of 2-year notes by the Treasury later this week. Running down the numbers for you. 

 The five-year note lost 1/32. 

 The ten-year, up 2/32. 

 And the 30- year bond off 3/32, with the yield at 6 percent even. 

 And the Lehman Brothers Long Bond Index off a fraction. 

 And in just a few minutes, we are going to take a look at some stocks that were making news today. Jeff. 

 YASTINE: Well, as you mentioned, Susie, Microsoft (MSFT) was the biggest point loser in the Dow, as Wall Street hedged its bets on the outcome of the government`s antitrust suit against the software giant. Despite months of talks and a late offer by Microsoft, there`s still no final settlement, and federal Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson may rule on the case as early as tomorrow. Stephanie Woods reports. 

 STEPHANIE WOODS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Sources say Microsoft has softened its stance to try to settle the lawsuit. Robert Litan worked on the 1994 federal antitrust case against Microsoft. He says the government has reason to take seriously the company`s offer to change its business practices. 

 ROBERT LITAN, ECONOMIC STUDIES DIRECTOR, BROOKINGS INSTITUTION: They don`t want three or so years of litigation in the courts so they appear to be willing to accept something short of breakup, but if it`s going to be that, it`s going to be a conduct remedy, it`s got to be awfully tight. 

 WOODS: We have learned Microsoft`s offer includes opening up the source code so products from competitors, like Internet browsers, can be added, and allowing computer makers to decide what software goes into the Windows operating system. But that`s not good enough for Microsoft`s critics. 

 EDWARD BLACK, PRESIDENT, COMPUTER & COMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION: So you have to assume that they are going to look for loopholes, they are going to challenge terms, they are going to be into court, they`re going to basically try to frustrate and negate the meaningful impact of any remedy. 

 WOODS: Microsoft runs the risk of more lawsuits once the judge issues his ruling. But the bigger threat may be what the judge rules should happen as a result. 

 STUART GERSON, PARTNER, EPSTEIN, BECKER & GREEN: The real threat is the remedy that the judge would impose, and nothing that will be in this next order would contain that remedy. So the case would be far from over even if this phase of the negotiation doesn`t succeed. 

 WOODS: The judge has given every indication he`d like to see this case settled. A ruling could come as early as tomorrow, but if there`s any hope a settlement can be reached now, he`s likely to give the parties at least a few more days to try to make a deal. Stephanie woods, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 GHARIB: E-trade is expanding its global reach to serve more investors all around the world. It announced today a joint venture with a Danish brokerage firm to offer online trading in Denmark. This capitalizes on Denmark`s high rate of Internet users. One in three families have Internet access and over 350,000 people bank online. E-trade already has operations in Korea, Germany and South Africa. 

 YASTINE: And speaking of foreign markets, they`ve been fertile ground for value investors, but lately the U.S. has been looking good for bargain seekers. Fund manager Mark Holowesko, Chief Investment Officer for Templeton Worldwide, joins us now to talk about where he`s shopping for stocks. And I guess the one place you`re not shopping is the NASDAQ, at least right now? 

 MARK HOLOWESKO, CIO, TEMPLETON WORLDWIDE: Not right now. NASDAQ is trading at about 255 times earnings. Our holdings are actually 95 percent cheaper than NASDAQ. We`re finding better value elsewhere. 

 YASTINE: Where are you looking at right now? 

 HOLOWESKO: We`ve been buying a lot in the U.S. Our U.S. weighting has risen over the last year. Behind the bubble of NASDAQ and technology the U.S. market has gone through a pretty severe correction already, a lot of stocks down 30 or 40 percent. So we`ve been doing a lot of buying in the U.S. lately. 

 YASTINE: And what specific companies? 

 HOLOWESKO: Companies like Bank America (BAC), which is down about 35 percent from its 52 two week high, a fairly decent yield, P.E. below 10, very cheap relative to its book value. A company like Ford (F) we`ve been adding to our position. We`ve been buying some of the food retailers like an Albertsons (ABS) or a Kroger (KR), some of the food manufacturers like Heinz (HNZ), quite widespread, but just non-technology at the moment. 

 YASTINE: What would it take for to you buy a technology name? 

 HOLOWESKO: Well, we own some technology around the world in different ways. We own a company called Marconi in the U.K., which is a telecommunications equipment manufacturer. But really price, you know, you should be able to pay up for growth, particularly in a low inflation environment. But growth has its price as well. And, you know, that`s really just the hot sector right now. There`s too much attention and people bid up that sector to prices, price levels that are too high. 

 YASTINE: Now, you`ve been paying more attention to the U.S. but that doesn`t mean you have abandoned your look in the foreign markets. Where have you been looking at there? 

 HOLOWESKO: We`ve spent a lot of time in Europe, primarily in the U.K. Some of the aerospace companies like a Rolls or British Aerospace in the United Kingdom to us seem very cheap. Over in Asia we`ve primarily been focusing on the Pacific Rim and Australia. The banks have come down tremendously. As rates went up the banks came down. And also some of the metals manufacturers that benefited from what the Australian currency has done. They make a lot of money in foreign currency and a lot of their costs are in local currency. So finding a lot to do overseas but quite honestly some of the cheapest stocks in the world today, in my opinion, are in the U.S. 

 YASTINE: Now, in the last couple of weeks we`ve seen at least some investors realize the kind of values that are there. We`ve seen a nice pop in the blue chip indices. Do you think that this particular rally has legs, that it can run further or will we see a rotation back into the NASDAQ again? 

 HOLOWESKO: I think rotations are never really very clean. So it could be sort of bumpy as we go. But a couple of things that are very positive. I think one, the evaluations just got to too much of an extreme. That`s very favorable. Two, I think the AOL/Time Warner deal is very good because it`s a very expensive stock buying real assets and you get that in the old technology names. And three, I think money activity will pick up and I think that`s very favorable for the value stocks. 

 YASTINE: Do you think the NASDAQ has seen its day, still might have some more room to run? 

 HOLOWESKO: Well, I don`t know if it`s seen its day, but it`s certainly seen my day in NASDAQ for quite some time. Two hundred and fifty times earnings is too rich and there`s way too much margin debt in NASDAQ and that`s a big problem. 

 YASTINE: All right, Mark, thank you very much for joining us today. 

 HOLOWESKO: Thank you. 

 YASTINE: Our guest, Mark Holowesko, Chief Investment Officer for Templeton Worldwide. 

 YASTINE: A California jury dealt the tobacco industry another blow today, awarding a dying ex-smoker $20 million in punitive damages on top of a $1.7 million in compensatory damages. Philip Morris (MO) and R.J. Reynolds (RJR) were ordered to pay $10 million each. Both plan to appeal the decision. Meanwhile, closing arguments are under way in the damages phase of Florida`s Engle tobacco trial. That`s a class action case representing 500,000 Florida smokers. And Susie, the Florida jury has already decided earlier that the tobacco companies made a deadly product. 

 GHARIB: Well, Jeff, tobacco stocks were down today and so were the blue chips. They took a breather today after last week`s big gains. The Dow fell about 87 points to 11,025. Market internals were weak. Decliners beat out advancers by a margin of 8 to 6. There were 88 new highs versus 49 new lows. 

 AT&T (T) was the most active stock today, up more than 1 1/2 points. The $115 billion proposed merger between MCI WorldCom (WCOM) and Sprint (FON) is running into some problems with regulators in Washington State. Apparently, they think that the merger could create higher prices to consumers. 

 AOL (AOL) rose 3 3/8 to 74 3/8. That`s a level that we haven`t seen since January when the company first announced plans to merger with Time Warner. But we found no news that triggered this rally. 

 Compaq Computer (CPQ) edged up 5/8. 

 Bank One (ONE) rose 2 9/16. The story here, Jamie Diamond, the former President of Citigroup , will become Bank One`s new CEO. 

 And Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) fell 2 3/16. 

 IBM (IBM) jumped over 5 1/2 points and that`s after Morgan Stanley Dean Witter upgraded the stock to "outperform" from "neutral." Also today, Big Blue and QWest Communications (Q) agreed to jointly develop the next generation services for e-business. 

 Citigroup dips 7/16 and like most of the financial stocks today, it was on the down side on continue worries about higher interest rates. 

 Qwest (Q) rose 3 1/2. 

 Pfizer (PFE) slipped an 1/8. 

 And Tyco (TYC) fell a 1 point, taking a little bit of a breather from last week`s gains. 

 Among the widelies, Cabletron System (CS) rose 4 1/4. That was on optimism that the company will deliver solid fourth quarter results on Wednesday after the market closes. 

 Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette (DLJ) fell 9 9/16. Morgan Stanley issued a downgrade in the wake of the stock`s recent run-up. 

 FPL Group (FPL) jumped 3 5/16, now this on speculation of merger talks with Spain`s number two utility. But the company refused to make any comment on those rumors. 

 JP Morgan (JPM) fell almost 6 points. That`s another one of those financial stocks that was gasping for air today. 

 Nike (NKE) advanced 1 7/8 and it was helped by a strong "buy" recommendation from Bank of America. 

 And Walgreen (WAG) lost 1 5/8, that on disappointing second quarter results, $0.23 a share. That was a penny below what Wall Street analysts were expecting. 

 Looking at the big movers today, Teladyne (TDY) gained 2 7/8. Its joint venture with Commodore Applied Technologies (CXI) got the green light from the U.S. Army to test their patented technology used to destroy chemical weapons. 

 TRW (TRW) picked up 7 5/16. J.P. Morgan says that TRW`s interest in Parasol, which on Friday agreed to be acquired by Celera Genomics, is a big plus for the company if segments of the human gene project are actually commercialized. 

 Unisys (UIS) rose 2 7/16. According to a published report out of Germany, Deutsche Telekom might want to buy this company. 

 Finova Group (FNV) fell more than 12 points. The financial services firm issued a first quarter profit warning today. Results will be impacted by special charges taken to increase loss reserves. 

 Bindley Western (BDY) dropped over 4 points on news that it`s under investigation by the Las Vegas attorney general`s office. The company might have violated drug manufacturing agreements. 

 And Calpine (CPN) was down another 10 points. That`s on top of an 18 point drop last Friday. More concerns there about the company`s accounting practices. 

 Well, over on the NASDAQ, more resistance to crossing the 5,000 level. It slipped 4 1/2 points today to 4958, very light volume, only 1.3 billion shares. This is the lightest of the year. There were 416 more issues down than up. 

 A rough day for Microsoft (MSFT), down 7 5/8. You heard the story that we reported on a little bit earlier in the program. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) edged up 11/16. 

 QUALCOMM (QCOM) advanced almost 3. 

 Intel (INTC) gained 3 5/8. 

 And Yahoo (YHOO) advanced 6 3/4. 

 Dell Computer (DELL) climbed 1 7/16. It says it`s very comfortable with estimates for the first quarter results and also its annual results, but it was cautious about memory chip shortages in the second half. 

 Sun Microsystems (SUNW) rose 4 3/4. 

 Oracle (ORCL) added 1 7/16. 

 MCI WorldCom (WCOM) up by a fraction. 

 And JDS Uniphase (JDSU) dipped 3 3/4. 

 As for the big movers today, Incara Pharmaceutical (INCR) ended up 3 3/4. It got the go ahead today from the Patent and Trademark Office to pursue a new technology that could offer an alternative to liver transplants. 

 Iroquois Bancorp (IROQ) jumped 13 9/16. Niagara Bancorp (NBCP) wants to buy it for $33.25 a share in cash. 

 And Timberline Software (TMBS) down almost 4 on a pre-announcement. It says its first quarter results are expected to come at $0.08 a share. Wall Street was looking for $0.17 a share, so a big drop there. On the AMEX, the Composite Index lost 8.64. 

 Among the movers there, Endorex (DOR) down 1 3/16. Like other biotechs, it`s been on a roller coaster ride. 

 And American Telesource (AI) dropped 1 1/16. The company couldn`t tell us the reason behind today`s weakness. 

 And finally we see weakness across-the-board in the Index Shares. 

 So, Jeff, that`s a look at some of the stocks that made news today. 

 GHARIB: Well, as we reported earlier, investors are gearing up for earnings season. This is the last trading week of the first quarter. And joining us now for a preview of what investors can expect is our colleague from BridgeNews, Tom Wolf, who covers the stock market. Hi, tom. 

 TOM WOLF, STOCK MARKET REPORTER, BRIDGENEWS: Good to be here, Susie. 

 GHARIB: Great. From the people that you`ve been talking to, Tom, what are they saying is the outlook for these first quarter numbers? 

 WOLF: Well, if the Fed`s five rate hikes since June are slowing the economy it`s not on the radar screen for first quarter profits. To date, IBS International, which tracks earnings, says negative pre-announcements are running about 60 percent of the total. This is well below the 80 percent downside we typically see during earnings warning season. Now also, analysts are raising their estimates rather than lowering them going into the end of the quarter and that`s unusual as well. 

 GHARIB: Oh, so that`s pretty, those are pretty dramatic numbers. What are they telling you about how all of the S&P numbers are going to shape up by the end of the quarter? 

 WOLF: Well, for the S&P 500 companies, the quarter looks likes 18 percent growth from a year ago quarter. This comes on top of 10 percent growth last year from the first quarter of 1998. 

 GHARIB: So what are the factors contributing to such good numbers? 

 WOLF: Well, there`s a couple of sectors. Three sectors are on a good growth course here. One is energy. The other one is basic materials and technology companies, energy because of raising oil prices, basic materials such as chemicals because of stronger global demand and technology companies due to resumed buying following the Y2K testing. 

 GHARIB: What do they say are some of the sectors that might not do as well? 

 WOLF: Well, the only one, the major sector that looks down is transportation and that`s because of higher fuel costs. 

 GHARIB: OK, that seems to make sense. All right, we`ve got about two weeks to go and then all the numbers are going to start flowing out. What are some of the big names that we should be watching out for right from the get go? 

 WOLF: Well, ALCOA Aluminum (AA) kicks off the earning season next week. The following week we have International Paper (IP), General Motors (GM) and Motorola (MOT). 

 GHARIB: OK, those are, some of those are Dow components. We`ll be watching. Thank you so much, Tom, for giving us this update. 

 WOLF: OK, thank you, Susie. 

 GHARIB: We`ve been speaking with Tom Wolf from BridgeNews. 

 YASTINE: Tomorrow, low water, high prices-the drought in the Midwest could cause problems for the economy. 

 GHARIB: A sweet deal for Monsanto (MCT). It`s selling its sweetener ingredient business, including the Nutra-Sweet brand name, for $440 million in cash. The buyer is J.W. Childs. This is an investment firm based in Boston. The sale is part of Monsanto`s strategy to focus on pharmaceuticals and agricultural related products. This deal completes its move out of the consumer and bulk food ingredients business. But there was no reaction in the stock today. It was unchanged at 47 1/4. 

 YASTINE: Procter & Gamble (PG) is considering washing its hands of Oxydol, one of its oldest laundry detergent brands. P&G wants to focus on global brands that are more profitable including Tide, its U.S. sales leader. The company is taking bids for Oxydol, but says it won`t sell the brand if it doesn`t get an offer that will wash. P&G`s stock fell 1 3/16 to 55 1/4. 

 GHARIB: You`ve probably heard the old saying there`s nothing certain but death and taxes. Well, death can also affect taxes and, in the right circumstances, actually lower them. With tonight`s tax tips segment, here`s Kevin McCormally, executive editor of "Kiplinger`s Personal Finance Magazine." 

 KEVIN MCCORMALLY, EXECUTIVE EDITOR, "KIPLINGER`S MAGAZINE": After a commercial break in a TV show I was on a few years ago, the woman interviewing me beamed at the camera and told the audience, Kevin just saved me thousands of dollars. What I had done was tell her about what I like to call the angel of death tax break. When her husband had died a couple of years earlier, she had become the sole owner of property that they had owned together and when she sold it, she assumed that her tax basis was what the two of them had paid for it. She paid capital gains taxes on the difference and that means she missed out on a break that saves taxpayers $10 billion a year. Generally when you inherit property, your basis become its value on the day the original owner died, not what he or she paid for it. The tax on all appreciation during that person`s lifetime is forgiven. And when married couples are involved half the basis of jointly owned property is stepped up to date of death value. Say a couple own a portfolio with a basis of $50,000 and it`s worth $550,000 when the husband dies. The widow`s basis automatically leaps to $300,000, Half the original basis plus half the date of the death value. That saves at least $50,000 in capital gains taxes and the savings could be greater if you live in a community property state, the ones that are listed on the screen now. In those states the entire basis of qualifying jointly owned property can be stepped up. If you sold inherited property during 1999 make sure you get your share of this break. Or if you sold inherited assets in 1996, `97 or `98, you still have time to do what that TV interviewer did, file an amended return to retroactively claim your tax savings. I`m Kevin McCormally. 

 YASTINE: And recapping today`s market action, the Dow fell almost 87 points. The NASDAQ lost about 4 1/2. And please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: NBR. 

 GHARIB: And finally tonight, a London newspaper has calculated the richest British person of the millennium and the winner is William of Warren, the Earl of Surrey. He controlled vast lands and estates. His fortune is worth a whopping $90.5 billion in today`s terms, which makes him richer than Bill Gates but poorer than John D. Rockefeller. But, you know, Jeff, when you think about it, he lived a very different kind of life because William of Warren fought in the Battle of Hastings with William the Conqueror back in 1066. 

 YASTINE: There`s a lot of compound interest, right? 

 GHARIB: Yeah, but that means he didn`t have, even with all of that money he might have had, he couldn`t buy all the gadgets that rich people are usually associated with and all the perks, you know, the modems and the cell phones and all that. 

 YASTINE: Well, hopefully his heirs put it in an IRA or something like that. That`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Monday, March 27th. I`m Jeff Yastine. Good night, everyone. Good night to you, Susie. 

 GHARIB: And good night to you, Jeff. I`m Susie Gharib and we`ll see all of you again tomorrow night. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post-broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. 

 The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. 

 Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. 

 c2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT.  THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.   Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.   (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dw3r0001p




 NEWSMAKER-Dimon finally to run his own show at Bank One. 

 By Mary Kelleher 
663 words
28 March 2000
00:54
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 27 (Reuters) - James "Jamie" Dimon - named on Monday as Bank One Corp.'s chief executive - will finally get to run his own show as head of the fourth-largest U.S. bank holding company after spending years in the shadow of Wall Street deal-maker Sanford "Sandy" Weill. 

 Dimon, 44, becomes chairman and CEO of Chicago-based Bank One after being ousted in late 1998 as president of Citigroup Inc. by Weill - his mentor and chairman of the financial services powerhouse. 

 Dimon had worked with Weill for most of his career and was viewed as his heir-apparent. But he lost his job after $1.3 billion in bond trading losses at the division he ran - the Salomon Smith Barney securities arm. These losses, which came at a time of global market turmoil, pushed Citigroup's 1998 third-quarter profits down more than 50 percent. 

 Despite his fall from grace at Citigroup, Dimon retains a solid reputation on Wall Street for being a popular, savvy manager who cultivates loyalty among his staff, analysts said. He also wins high marks for his focus on stock price performance. Citigroup stock fell for two days after his abrupt departure from there. 

 Even so, Dimon lacks experience in two of Bank One's biggest businesses - lending to mid-sized companies and credit cards, one analyst noted. 

 "He is a guy with tremendous prestige and stature on Wall Street," said Lawrence Cohn, an analyst at Ryan, Beck Southeast Research. "But on the other hand, he has no experience whatsoever as a chief executive, he hasn't worked in the card business and he has no experience in the core middle-market commercial lending market." 

 Dimon will have his work cut out for him at Bank One, whose stock price has shriveled as it wrestles with internal problems at its large credit card operation. The Chicago-based company lost favour on Wall Street after warning analysts four times since last summer that consensus profit forecasts were too high. 

 Dimon will fill roles vacated in December by John McCoy, who retired after the bank's string of profit warnings. 

 He will also buy 2 million shares of Bank One stock, worth about $61.8 million by Monday's closing stock price, giving him a huge personal stake in the stock's performance. 

 "Jamie's fresh perspective and his ability to galvanise employees also set him apart from an exceptional field of candidates from around the country," said John Hall, the non-executive chairman of the board who has led the search for a new CEO, which began in January. 

 Before the formation of Citigroup in 1998, Dimon was president and chief operating officer of financial services company Travelers Group Inc. for seven years. Travelers, under the hand of Weill, merged with Citicorp to create Citigroup. 

 He became chairman and CEO of its Smith Barney securities unit in January 1996. When Travelers bought Salomon Brothers, he became co-head of the combined firm in November 1997. 

 But Dimon's ties with Weill go even further back, to his first job at financial services and charge card company American Express Co. He was assistant to Weill, who was president of the company from 1981 to 1985. 

 Weill left American Express in 1985 to head a small consumer loan company, Commercial Credit, which would become the springboard for his trademark acquisitions. Dimon was a key member of the original team that launched Commercial Credit in 1986. Commercial Credit later bought struggling financial services group Primerica Corp., which owned Smith Barney. In 1993, still under Weill's stewardship, it bought insurer Travelers and renamed itself again. 

 "Jamie is a known commodity with strong disciplines and talents in the financial services industry," Robert Albertson, who runs financial services investment firm Pilot Financial. "The fit is obvious and compelling." 

 ((Financial services desk 212-859-1644)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3r03er6




 Timberline Software Shares Plunge On 1st-Quarter  Profit Warning 

333 words
27 March 2000
15:24
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Shares of Timberline Software Corp. tumbled to a 52-week low after the company said it expects first-quarter earnings to fall well short of analysts' estimates because of a shortfall in software-license revenue. 

 The Beaverton, Ore.-based company, which develops computer software for the construction and property-management industries, also warned that future quarters could be hurt if the current weakness in software orders continues. 

 Timberline (TMBS) said it projects first-quarter earnings in the range of six cents to eight cents a share. The mean estimate of three analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial of 17 cents a share on a fully diluted basis. 

 In the year-ago first quarter, the company posted net income of $2.2 million, or 23 cents a diluted share, on revenue of $13.3 million. 

 Timberline said the year-ago results included the largest single order in company history, which increased earnings by three cents a share. The company expects no comparable order in this year's first quarter. 

 The company said that although it expects an increase in service-fee revenue for the first quarter, software license revenue likely will come in lower than analysts' and company expectations as a result of delays in new product introductions and a decline year-2000 software sales. 

 The company said has targeted the specialty-contractor segment of the construction industry as a primary focus for future growth. However, because of delays in introducing new products needed for this market segment, Timberline has not been able to begin penetration as quickly as it had anticipated. 

 Timberline also said forecasts that the demand for year-2000 software upgrades in the the construction section would continue well into the current year have proven inaccurate, as the company hasn't seen any significant business related to Y2K. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw3r01c43




 Suspense over as deal ends bra wars. 

 By JOHN DUCKERS. 
633 words
25 March 2000
Birmingham Post
BMP
19
English
(c) 2000  Birmingham Post & Mail Ltd

 Peace was declared in the bra wars yesterday as underwear maker Courtaulds Textiles bowed to an increased #150.5 million takeover offer from American Wonderbra-to-cakes group Sara Lee. 

 The decision to back the offer marks an end to a bitterly-fought battle for Courtaulds, supplier to Marks & Spencer and owner of the Gossard and Berlei brands. Sara Lee upped its price from an original #103.8 million. 

 Its chairman and chief executive Mr John H Bryan said: 'I am delighted that we have concluded this agreement with the board of Courtaulds.' 

 Mr John Eccles, Courtaulds chairman, said the new price marked 'fair value' to shareholders, who will receive 145p a share. 

 He and his chief executive, Mr Colin Dyer, had repeatedly attacked Sara Lee's original hostile bid as being undervalued and opportunistic. Mr Bryan responded by highlighting the slim profits of Courtaulds's best-known brands. 

 The biggest supplier to M&S is thought to have originally demanded 200p a share but shareholders are expected to accept Sara Lee's current offer. Courtaulds, once one of the leading lights in British industry, has suffered in recent years, along with the rest of the shrinking UK textiles sector. 

 It was founded in 1849 as Samuel Courtauld and became one of Britain's most profitable manufacturers. 

 But the textiles division, split off from a large chemicals and industrial business in the 1980s, has struggled to fend off the threat of cheap foreign imports. 

 In line with the demands of store chains like Marks & Spencer, it has been moving its manufacturing overseas. 

 Last month it announced plans to cut 500 jobs and close two British factories. 

 A profit warning last year left it vulnerable although recent earnings figures came in above City expectations. 

 A spokesman for Sara Lee said it was too early to comment on possible further redundancies at the group, whose Berlei Shock Absorber bra is worn by tennis ace Anna Kournikova. 

 But the Courtaulds operation will be kept as a separate, standalone division of Sara Lee, which could reduce the impact on staff. 

 Its new owners will press ahead with Courtaulds's plans to sell off a clutch of businesses including the famous golfing sweaters and woollens maker Lyle & Scott. 

 Williams's bid to transform itself from an out-of-favour conglomerate into a valued member of the service sector is on track. 

 The group confirmed yesterday that its famous Yale lock division was going to Sweden's Assa Abloy for #860 million. The group has a major factory in Willenhall. 

 The sale was announced provisionally last month. Assa's share price has since risen sharply, taking the value of the deal from the original #825 million to the present price. The disposal has also boosted Williams's shares, which have been languishing because of the City's current dislike of conglomerates. 

 Chief executive Mr Roger Carr now plans to spin off its Chubb and Kidde brand names in the fourth quarter of 2000. Chubb will be relisted in the booming service sector. 

 Net cash proceeds from the sale, amounting to around #505 million, will be used to reduce Williams's net debt, pending reinvestment in the Chubb and Kidde businesses. 

 Mr Carr says funds from the disposal would produce an exceptional pre-tax gain, before goodwill of around #530 million. 

 The City welcomed the original news of Williams's break-up strategy. The group's shares jumped 20 per cent on that day, to just over #3, and, after an early rise, closed last night down 141/1p at 314.75p. 

 Yesterday, several analysts changed their ratings to 'buy' and set increased share price targets of around 395p. 

 Copyright Birmingham Post & Mail Ltd, 2000. 

Document bmp0000020010805dw3p0014m




 Sara Lee wins bra battle. 

264 words
24 March 2000
The Scotsman
SC
English
(c) 2000

 UNDERWEAR maker Sara Lee won the battle of the bras today after upping its bid for Courtaulds Textiles. 

 The US maker of the famed Wonderbra raised its previous offer of #103.8 million to #150.5m to land the British group. 

 The decision by Courtaulds to accept the offer marks an end to a bitterly-fought battle for Courtaulds, supplier to Marks & Spencer and owner of the Gossard and Berlei brands. 

 Sara Lee's chairman and chief executive, John H Bryan, said: "I am delighted that we have concluded this agreement with the board of Courtaulds." 

 John Eccles, Courtaulds chairman, said the new price of 145 pence per share was "fair". 

 He said: "The board of Courtaulds believes that this revised offer from Sara Lee will deliver fair value to our shareholders." The stock market also welcomed news of the deal, with Courtaulds' shares rising 14.5p to 143p. 

 The 145p-per-share cash offer from Sara Lee compares with the original 100p offer last month. Courtaulds is thought to have originally demanded 200p a share. 

 Courtaulds, once one of the leading lights in British industry, has suffered in recent years, along with the rest of the shrinking UK textiles sector. 

 Last month it announced plans to cut 500 jobs and close two British factories. 

 A profit warning in November left it vulnerable to takeover bids, although earnings figures announced last month came in above City expectations. 

 The Courtaulds operation will be kept as a separate, standalone division of Sara Lee, which could reduce the impact on staff. 

Document sc00000020010816dw3o015av




 FOCUS - Lara Croft caught in games war crossfire. 

 By Philippa Moreton 
743 words
24 March 2000
16:44
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, March 24 (Reuters) - Shares in computer games maker Eidos Plc crashed on Friday after a warning it would be hit hard by the transition to a new generation of gaming platforms, with players proving unwilling to buy current stocks. 

 Cyber-babe Lara Croft, star of Eidos' hit Tomb Raider series, faces a tough challenge as she enters the battle zone of platforms such as Sega Enterprises' Dreamcast, Sony Corp's Playstation 2, Microsoft Corp's X-Box and Nintendo's Dolphin. 

 "The market is constrained by many customers holding out until the next generation of gaming platforms arrives later this year or next year," Chief Operating Officer Mike McGarvey told Reuters in an interview. 

 The new more powerful gaming platforms would have a positive impact on the market in the long term but the transition was likely to lead to a further weakening of current-generation software in the near term. 

 Second-half operating profits would be significantly worse than a year ago and results for the year to end March would therefore be substantially below last year, the company said. 

 McGarvey told Reuters Eidos was considering cutting the prices of some of its products as fewer customers were prepared to pay the current premium for the group's software, much of which retails at around 29 pounds ($46.03). 

 "There is a gravitation towards lower priced software with new consumers coming in who are not prepared to spend 29 pounds - preferring to pay under 19 pounds," he said. 

 The company's shares were struck down in early trading, tumbling to half the previous day's close. They ended the day down 37 percent at 379 pence, after hitting a low of 295p at one point - their lowest level since February 1999. 

 In December Eidos shares peaked at over 13 pounds. 

 HISTORY REPEATING 

 Analysts said the transitionary phase was a normal stage in the cycle where some products such as Playstation reach maturity before others come to the market. A similar situation arose five years ago when machines moved to 32 bits from 16 bits. 

 "All that is happening is we are at the same point in the same cycle, with this time Eidos putting profit warnings out - so it's just history repeating itself," said Warburg Dillon Read analyst Kean Marden. 

 Eidos' decision to sell off some of its stake in Norwegian data storage firm Opticom, resulting in exceptional pre-tax profits of around 84 million pounds, will give the company cash to sit on until the next cycle takes off. 

 "We are anticipating the effect that a constrained market will have on our performance and taking steps to ensure that the impact of the changes in the market place are not carried through into our 2000/2001 market," said McGarvey. 

 Marden said: "It'll leave them ungeared at the end of the year and if any opportunities do come along they will be in a position to participate." 

 Due to the current lower level of consumer demand, which had led to congestion in the retail channel, Eidos said it would now delay the release of certain products, including Nomad Soul (Dreamcast), F1 World Grand Prix (PC), Tomb Raider (Game Boy Color) and Daikatana (PC) to the first quarter of 2001. 

 BID FEAR FACTOR? 

 There is nothing new in rumours of bid offers for Eidos but at its current vulnerable price the stock must look tempting, especially with such attractive intellectual property, analysts said. 

 In France, where Edios' profit warning hurt French rivals, competitor Infogrames Entertainment was considered a possible contender - but the company declined comment on the rumours. 

 Marsden said the two most likely predators would be Infogrames and Microsoft which, as it enters the market with it's X-Box in 2001, could be looking for content providers to help bolster sales of the new console. 

 WARNING JUST THE LATEST REVELATION 

 In January, Eidos announced a profit warning after the revelation of disappointing Christmas sales and product delays, and at the end of last month the group posted a 45 percent decline in third quarter pre-tax profits on revenues down 19 percent. 

 For the nine months to end 1999 the company reported operating losses of 11 million pounds compared to a profit of 36.2 million pounds the previous year on turnover down 16 percent to 142.6 million pounds. ($1=.6300 Pound). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3o03rmb


 Business 
 MONEYLINE 

 Willow Bay, Stuart Varney, Greg Clarkin, John Metaxas, Peter Viles, Fred Katayama, Jim Moret, Susan Lisovicz, Steve Young, Ceci Rodgers, Allan Dodds Frank 
8,435 words
23 March 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE: Tonight, the Dow makes a triumphant return to 11,000, a big-cap blowout from blue chips old and new. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE: Driving Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) stock to the moon, hopes that the epic battle between Bill Gates and the government is reaching a climax. 

 BAY: Rupert Murdoch eyeing one of GM`s (URL: http://www.gm.com/) prized assets. MONEYLINE has confirmed News Corp. is looking into buying DirecTV. 

 VARNEY: And our special series on genomics. Cracking the genetic code may lead to profits, but what about ethics? 

 ANNOUNCER: This is THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Willow Bay and Stuart Varney. 

 VARNEY: Good evening, everyone. A little more than a week ago, the Dow closed at 9,811, in the depths of a correction. 

 BAY: Tonight the index is more than 1,300 points higher after another powerful, broad-based rally today. The Dow surged more than 250 points, the winners running the gamut from high-techs to old- school financials. 

 It vaulted above 11,000 for the first time since early February, to its highest close in two months. And the buying wasn`t confined to the select Dow 30. The Nasdaq extended yesterday`s strong gains and the S&P shattered its third record in a row. 

 Greg Clarkin reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Investors chose news over denials and sent shares of Microsoft soaring, boosting the Dow, Nasdaq and the S&P. Published reports had Microsoft moving closer to settling its antitrust battle with the government. Justice Department officials denied it, but investors believed what they read  instead. 

 Microsoft shares closed up more than 8, at 111 7/8 . The Dow`s 2.3 percent gain was also driven by a surge in GE shares, after Lehman Brothers (URL: http://www.lehman.com/) upgraded the stock and set a higher price target. GE shares rose more than 8 as well. Recent underperformers rebounded, helping to propel the Dow: ALCOA (URL: http://www.alcoa.com/) , DuPont (URL: http://www.dupont.com/)  , International Paper (URL: http://www.ipaper.com/) , and J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) all moved higher on the day. 

 The broad rally resulted in another record for the S&P 500, its third straight. But some analyst noted the rally was still technology-driven. 

 DENNIS MCKECHNIE, PIMCO: It is a broadening out. One important, though, is that tech is now about a third of the S&P 500. In 1992, it was 7 percent -- massive move. And so, when tech moves, it tends to pull the market with it. 

 CLARKIN: What passes for old technology fueled the Nasdaq`s rally. Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) , Cisco Systems (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) , Sun (URL: http://www.sun.com/) MicroSystems, all edged forward. While semiconductor and biotech took a breather as investors took profits following a big run-up. But analysts said technology overall should continue to drive the markets, despite the Dow`s recent gains. 

 DODGE DORLAND, LANDOR INVESTMENT MGMT.: If there is a concern in the Dow, in the old-economy type stocks and we see another move or failure to hold -- for example, the Dow the failure to hold the 11,000 level -- then there will be a greater reason for money to flow out of the Dow, old-economy type stocks, and back into technology. And at that point, that`s when you`re going to see the divergence increase. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: And while there`s optimism of the first quarter earnings announcement, there is always the chance of surprised profit warning. Shares of Compaq fell 8 percent today on speculation its revenue may be less than expected for the quarter. Now the company wouldn`t comment, but investors jumped out in a big way. It was the most actively traded stock on the big board -- Willow. 

 BAY: Greg, so what are expectations on first quarter profits? 

 CLARKIN: Willow, the traders down here are really looking for a very strong first quarter pretty much across the board. Outside of Proctor & Gamble and Dial a few weeks back, they haven`t seen a real high-profile profit warning. That`s why Compaq was a little bit troublesome late in the day, to some folks. 

 But outside of that, they`re looking for very strong quarters. The financials doing well already and General Electric (URL: http://www.ge.com) it`ll top earnings estimates. So a lot of folks here are looking for a very strong earnings season. 

 BAY: Greg Clarkin at the big board, thank you. 

 Taking a closer look now at the closing numbers on Wall Street, the Dow today spent just a few minutes in the red before taking off, soaring as much as 270 points, ending the session up 253 at 11,119. The Nasdaq shot up 111 at its high today, but couldn`t sustain that lofty gain. It ended up 75 to 4,940. The S&P 500 today ended well above 1,500 to score its third record close in a row. Advancing issues beat out decliners by nearly two to one on the big board; 107 stocks hit new highs, 40 new lows. 

 VARNEY: Today`s turbo rally on the Dow helps pull the index out of the hole that it sunk into this year. The index is now down about 3 percent in the year 2000, though it`s still down 5 percent from its high. Compare that to the Nasdaq, which is once again up more than 20 percent on the year. 

 Today`s Nasdaq rally brings it about 100 points shy of its record. 

 John Metaxas joins us now from the Nasdaq market site with more on a third straight winning session -- John. 

 JOHN METAXAS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Stuart, it was a very strong day for the technology stocks after that Microsoft headline today. The Nasdaq got out of the gate on the upside and never looked back, coming in within 25 points of 5,000 level. 

 Of course, Microsoft`s was the engine that powered the rally today. And you know, before we ever heard of genomic stocks or business-to-business or fiber optics, these were the companies that made people money. And it was that kind of old-style rally today. 

 Microsoft up substantially. Cisco Systems up 5 5/8 today. For a very brief period, Cisco surpassed Microsoft in market capitalization. Intel was down, but Intel had their rally yesterday ahead of the rest of the market. This is near a 52-week high right here. 

 But the biotechs had a very bad day today. Amgen (URL: http://www.amgen.com/) was downgraded by Merrill Lynch. Merrill Lynch downgrading them based on valuation, also saying that there is substantial litigation risk in this stock. 

 But that doesn`t mean you couldn`t make money in some of the special situations within biotech. Here`s just one story Immune Response Corporation gaining 42 percent. And that stock was upgraded by a brokerage firm. The company says recent clinical data suggests one of its therapies may induce immunity to the HIV virus. 

 So overall, it was a good session on the Nasdaq, but the market breadth did not really match what was going on in the Nasdaq Index itself. Advancers just ahead of decliners by a very narrow margin, suggesting that perhaps the rest of the market not yet ready to follow what the Nasdaq big caps did today. 

 I`m John Metaxas, reporting live from the Nasdaq market site. 

 VARNEY: Well, joining the winners circle today: General Motors and its Hughes Electronics unit. MONEYLINE has confirmed that Rupert Murdoch and News Corp. have been actively looking for a way to snap up the crowned jewel of Hughes, that is the satellite operator DirecTV. 

 GM soared 5 1/4 points. The tracking stock for Hughes rocketed nearly 11 1/2, and that stock hit a 52-week high. News Corp. was down 1 3/4. The question now, not whether Murdoch wants to buy Hughes, but whether he can. 

 Peter Viles reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Rupert Murdoch Satellite TV Network covers much of the globe, but it does not cover the richest consumer market and Murdoch`s home, the United States. MONEYLINE has confirmed Murdoch`s News Corp. is considering ways it could buy DirecTV, now part of the General Motors` Hughes Electronic unit. 

 With eight million subscribers, DirecTV is the largest satellite TV service in the U.S. News Corp. would not comment on its possible interest in DirecTV and said it had not talked to General Motors. General Motors had no comment. But if this deal is to be done, it must go through Detroit, because Hughes is a GM tracking stock and not a stand-alone company. 

 TOM BURNETT, MERGER INSIGHT: It`s very complicated because it gives GM, essentially, a 100 percent veto over any transaction. Just going out and buying shares of GMH won`t cut it because the economic ownership is controlled by GM. 

 VILES: Murdoch`s preference for satellites is no secret. His Star TV covers Asia, B Sky B covers Europe and Sky Latin America makes News Corp. the satellite leader there. 

 MARC GROSSMAN, VICE PRESIDENT, J.P. MORGAN: And then in the U.S., News Corp. has a huge, gaping hole. And the purchase of Direct TV, if they could pull something off like this, would give them the most complete satellite assets for delivering satellite TV to the end user. You know, more complete assets -- set of assets than any other plan on the market. 

 VILES: Hughes could be the missing link but it would not be cheap. The stock has rallied 160 percent in the past year, including a strong rally Thursday on reports of Murdoch`s interest, and now carries a market value of roughly $63 billion dollars. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VILES: And analysts believe that a deal of that size might just be too big for News Corp. alone. Now one obvious partner in the bid could be John Malone`s Liberty Media, which already owns 8 percent of News Corp. and a very small stake in Hughes. Liberty tonight had no comment -- Willow, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Do analysts at this point think that a deal by Murdoch for DirecTV is at all likely? 

 VILES: Not likely at this point, very intriguing, very interesting, but not likely. 

 VARNEY: Not likely is the word of the day. 

 Peter Viles, thanks. 

 BAY: Up next, a nail-biting day for Lucent. 

 VARNEY: Yes, we`ll look at how the stock held by more Americans than any other was held hostage today by a mysterious -- or two-way mysterious hoax. 

 BAY: And an online brokerage hostage to a different problem: too much traffic, overload at American Express. 

 VARNEY: And next, we`re going to talk with strategist John Manley on the Dow`s dazzling day. Stay with us for that, please. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Lucent swung within a $6 trading range today, after a damaging press release was later revealed to be a hoax. The fake news release was posted on a Yahoo! message board, fueling rumors that were already circulating on Wall Street that Lucent would miss earnings estimates. Lucent quickly denied the speculation and the stock turned around. It ended the day up more than two. 

 VARNEY: All right, checking some of tonight`s MONEYLINE "Movers": Gilead Sciences (URL: http://www.gilead.com/) jumped more than 5 1/2, Lehman Brothers started the biotech company with a buy rating. And it also set a $98 price target and said it`s currently trading at a discount to its peers. KLA Tencor (URL: http://www.kla.com/) , up more than three, CS First Boston said it will be the first major chip equipment firm to report quarterly results next month. It expects KLA to report an upside surprise, which could set a positive tone for the industry. 

 Breezecom, up nearly 20 on its market debut. The Israel-based firm makes wireless access products. 

 And then there`s Compuware (URL: http://www.compuware.com/) , down three. DLJ (URL: http://www.dlj.com) downgraded the software maker to a market perform. It expects the company`s stock to hit $30 in the next year, down from a previous forecast of $40. 

 BAY: An unsolicited takeover bid tops tonight`s other headliners. 

 Bausch & Lomb offered to buy Wesley Jessen Vision Care for $600 million and said it will make a tender offer to shareholders if the contact lens maker refused to negotiate. Wesley Jessen agreed to buy Ocular Services on Monday and said it continues to believe in the merits of that deal, but will respond to Bausch & Lomb`s offer in an appropriate time frame. Shares of Bausch & Lomb fell 3/4, Wesley Jessen jumped more than 8 1/2, while Ocular Sciences fell one. 

 Chase Manhattan confirms its in talks with UK investment banking firm Robert Fleming Holdings. Such a combination would give Chase a bigger piece of the European and Asian M&A market. Chase Manhattan jumped $6.50 today. 

 VARNEY: With today`s rally, the Dow is now up a stunning 13 percent in slightly more than one week. Obvious question: Can the blue chips keep up that kind of pace? 

 Let`s ask John Manley. He`s the stock strategist at Salomon Smith Barney. John, welcome back. 

 JOHN MANLEY, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Good evening. 

 VARNEY: For months, there`s been a flow of cash towards Nasdaq stocks. Now, has that cash changed direction? Is it flowing back to the blue chips so they can have a meaningful, longer-term rally? 

 MANLEY: I think so. I mean, you have to realize what happened while that was going on. You know, as of a week and a half ago the average stock in the S&P was 35 percent off its high. That`s almost as bad as it was after the cash in `87. And there`s some real companies still out there. Add that to long term rates, 10 year rates, I`ll call them the treasury going down, that`s a very powerful sign for the next six to 12 months for a lot of stocks. 

 VARNEY: For across-the-board stocks not just the big names on the Dow and the blue chips. 

 MANLEY; I think so. I think it`s across the board. I think it goes beyond technology, although it doesn`t exclude technology. Technology is not so much on old economy, new economy, oh, that was there. Technology was a great place to hide while the Fed was clearly in an aggressive tightening mode or a semi-aggressive tightening mode. Big liquid, high quality, good earnings revisions, exactly what you want to have when the Fed`s being tough. It`s going to be tough for the Fed to be as tough in the next six to nine months. 

 VARNEY: You`re not talking about any kind of correction? You`re not talking about plateauing off on the outside, no? We`re off to the races still. It`s up up, is it? 

 MANLEY: I can never call it on daily bases. You of all people should know that. But I think on balance, the factors are pretty good. You know, what do we have at the beginning of a bull market. We generally have stocks that are down, rates that have gone up and then are coming down. Gee, that sounds like today doesn`t it? sounds like a week or so ago. I hate to say it`s all over right now after a week and a half. Thirty-five percent off its high. You know, in `87, in November of `87, I guess it was 37 or 38 percent for an average. That`s a pretty big hit. 

 VARNEY: You got it. Earnings coming up soon. It`s the earning season. Tech stocks, will they perform earnings-wise? 

 MANLEY: I think they will. There is no sign that has slowed down. You know, one of the thing that`s kept tech going for so long, it`s not valuation, it`s the fact the surprise has still been  very positive. In the last year, tech and com have had upside revisions of something like, two to one. In the last two or three months, it`s been more like three to one. That sounds pretty good for me coming into the quarter. 

 VARNEY: No serious dark clouds out there? 

 MANLEY: There`s always problems. I mean the fact I`m feeling better these days is probably a good sign -- a bad sign for those who look at it that way. But I think you have to watch out for signs of inflation, but they`re not there. You have to watch for signs the  Fed`s becoming difficult. You have to watch for signs of earnings. A million things could go wrong but I don`t see why they`re going to happen right with rates coming down and so many stocks have already gone down. 

 VARNEY: Quick comment on this: General motors valued at $55 billion dollars. It`s -- 60 percent of Hughes is valued at $40 billion. It`s got $13 billion in cash, that makes $53 billion. That means the market values it`s car operation at virtually, zero, $2 million tops. Comment? 

 MANLEY: Well, I think that`s what happened. 

 VARNEY: Crazy? 

 MANLEY: No, it is crazy. I think that represents some of the values in some of these quote, unquote "cyclical stocks," which have a old economy, new economy; old stocks, new stocks. A lot of stocks migrate, a lot of companies migrate. They get into business and then they get too cheep. When it gets too far spread, these things snap  because people are out to make money any way they can. And if can LBO (ph) or buy out a company that seems to offer very good value on that, or any other analysis, they`ll do it. 

 VARNEY: It`s going to happen. John Manley, thanks very much for joining us. 

 MANLEY: Thank you. 

 BAY: Coming up, customers flock to a free offering. 

 VARNEY: But American Express finds that too much of a good thing can cause a logistical nightmare. Trouble for AMEX online. That`s next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: As you might imagine, several stocks hit 52-week highs today and they include: Best Buy (URL: http://www.bestbuy.com/) , Citigroup (URL: http://www.citi.com/) , Disney (URL: http://www.disney.com/) , Guess ? (URL: http://www.guess.com/) and Legg Mason (URL: http://www.leggmason.com/) . 

 A word today that Disney is taking its concerns about the impact of a rival merger to Capitol Hill. The company today confirmed that it`s lobbying Congress to make sure that Disney`s programming will be not shut out of America Online after it merges with Time Warner, which is the parent of this network. Disney says it is not opposed to the deal, but is merely seeking open access. Disney stock was up more than a dollar. Time Warner edged lower, as did AOL. 

 BAY: Old-economy companies continue to jump on the B-2-B bandwagon. Today, three major deals were announced, including one that involves some of the nation`s biggest home builders. Companies like Centex (URL: http://www.centex.com/) and Kaufman & Brode (URL: N/A) , plan to create an e- Commerce portal that will list new homes available throughout the country. 

 International Paper, Georgia-Pacific (URL: http://www.gp.com/) , and Weyerhaeuser (URL: http://www.weyerhaeuser.com/) plan to create a business-to-business Web market for paper and forest products. 

 And finally, Pet Assure wants to create an electronic marketplace  for the veterinary industry. So it`s hooked up with Cornerstone Internet Solutions to create VETGalaxy.com. Checking investor reaction: Centex up more than one, Kaufman and Broad gained 1/2, International Paper and Weyerhauser both rose on their alliance. Cornerstone Internet Solutions also up fractionally. 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s "Tech Watch," a traffic jam in cyberspace for American Express` brokerage unit. Its free stock trading service became so popular that the company can not service, or couldn`t service, all of its customers. 

 Fred Katayama has the story. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, AD) 

 UNIDENTIFIED ANNOUNCER: The American Express card -- don`t leave  home without it. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): American Express symbolizes service and trust. Lose a travelers` cheque, and it`s replaced in 24 hours. Its online brokerage unit boasts its service is "exceptional." Some say it`s anything but. 

 In Web tracker Gomez.com`s spring survey of consumer confidence, AmEx ranked 53rd out of 56 online brokers, falling 23 notches from the previous quarter. The reason, according to complaints posting on the Gomez Web site, customers seeking help on how the navigate the AmEx brokerage Web site, for example, can wait as long as half an hour before someone answers. 

 ALEXANDER STEIN, GOMEZ ADVISERS: Our data found that we could not get through to customer service, on telephone or e-mail, period. We tried a battery of tests, and in this past quarter, all its tests unresponsive. 

 KATAYAMA: And often e-mails don`t get answered right away. When they are, some are canned responses, referring them back to the 1-800 line. 

 To be fair, Gomez says service at many online brokerages has slipped because of the recent record trading volumes. 

 But in American Express (URL: http://www.americanexpress.com/) case, there`s a bigger factor. Its pioneering free stock trading program has proved too popular, signing up in one week the number of customers it thought it would get in one month, but the company lacked the staff to handle the load. 

 FRANCOIS ODOUARD, V.P., AMERICAN EXPRESS BROKERAGE: Given the fact that the volumes that we have been experiences are actually a lot higher than what he had planned, we did have -- it does a little bit more time to answer the phone than we would like. 

 KATAYAMA: Similar to what America Online encountered in 1996 when it offered unlimited service at a flat rate; both lacked the infrastructure to meet the spike in demand. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 KATAYAMA: American Express says it`s adding staff and beefing up technology. But it did not offer any deadlines for improving service -- Stuart and Willow. 

 VARNEY: Well, that`s customer service. What about the performance of the 

 Web site itself? 

 KATAYAMA: That, too, was slower than that of the competition, but not so much as to derail the process of an order. 

 VARNEY: And it`s free. 

 Fred Katayama, thanks very much. 

 BAY: Coming up, President Clinton takes time out from the delicate dance of diplomacy. That is in our news digest. 

 VARNEY: And we`ll tell you about the new partnership that let`s you surf while you slim. 

 We`ll be back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Time now for the MONEYLINE "News Digest." And with that, here is Jim Moret -- Jim. 

 JIM MORET, CNNfn ANCHOR: Thank you, Stuart. 

 CNN has learned the Justice Department is conducting a criminal investigation into White House computer breakdowns which blacked out subpoenaed e-mails. Contractors from Northrop Grumman today told a house hearing that White House employees warned them to keep the problem quiet, threatening two of them with jail. The administration employees deny that charge. The glitch blocked delivery of hundreds of White House messages subpoenaed by Congress, the independent counsel and 

 the Justice Department. 

 Amid protests in Miami today, Attorney General Janet Reno restated her belief that Elian Gonzalez should be reunited with his father in Cuba. But Reno declined to discuss the behind-the-scenes negotiations to send the boy home. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 JANET RENO, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: His family is very we`ll intentioned. They care a great deal. Elian`s father cares a very great deal. This is a wonderful boy, from all that I have heard, and it is just important that everybody work it out the right way. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 MORET: President Clinton was showered with flowers as he toured rural India today. The president mixed sightseeing with cross- cultural exchange, discussing the role of women in Indian society with villagers. And in Israel, the pope expressed grief and sorrow during an emotional visit to a hilltop memorial for victims of the Holocaust. But he stopped short of an apology for the Catholic Church`s silence  during the Nazi era. 

 I`ll have more on those stories on the "WORLD TODAY," 8:00 p.m. Eastern, 5:00 Pacific. 

 Stuart, Willow, back to you. 

 BAY: Thanks, Jim. 

 Well, here`s a story that combines two obsessions of our time: the Internet and our waistlines. Today, Bally Total Fitness is hooking up with Netpulse  Communications to bring broadband Internet access to its North American fitness centers. Bally`s plans to install Netpulse Internet appliances on everything from steppers to exercise bikes. Now when customers work out, they can surf the Web for  e-commerce, e-mail, music and TV. For Netpulse, it could mean an additional 125 million visits a year to its network. 

 VARNEY: That`s a great idea, isn`t it? 

 Ahead on the next half-hour, Microsoft helps kick Wall Street into high gear. We`ll have details on that for you. 

 BAY: Plus turmoil in the bond pits. 

 Stay with us. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s headlines: call it the Microsoft rally. The stock lights up the Dow, the Nasdaq and the S&P. 

 Question: Does Rupert Murdoch want DirecTV? MONEYLINE has confirmed News Corp. would like to buy it. But would General Motors let it go? 

 And our series on genomics continues, as companies race to discover the mysteries of the human gene. We ask the question: who owns life? 

 BAY: First more on our top story: the stock market fired up by a big-cap comeback. Investors today clamored for shares of the most important names in corporate America, igniting a broad-based rally. With enormous help from General Electric and Microsoft, the Dow industrials reached their best level in two months, cracking 11,000. The Dow rocketed 253 points or 2 percent, closing at 11,119. That puts Wall Street`s best known index just 5 percent below its all-time high. 

 The Nasdaq also felt the might of Microsoft. The index climbed 75 points, or about 1.5 percent, to close at 4,940. It is now up 330 points in three days. And it was record number three for S&P, which rallied 26 points. 

 Susan Lisovicz has more on the big day for big names. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It was Microsoft`s day in the stock market. Investors flocked to the stock on sketchy published reports suggesting that the world`s biggest software company might soon settle its case with the Justice Department. 

 Microsoft`s surge helped drive the Dow over the 11,000 mark for the first time since early February, and it helped propel the Nasdaq to its third consecutive rally. General Electric, the oldest company in the Dow industrials, did its share of heavy lifting, too, after positive analyst comments on its improved earnings outlook. The broad rally united old and new-economy stocks, pushing the AMEX and S&P 500 to new highs. 

 BERNADETTE MURPHY, KIMELMAN & BAIRD: It`s very exciting for investors. It`s important that we have a broadening in the market. We were becoming too narrowly focused, and that seems to be taking place. That sets a strong foundation for the long-term outlook for the stock market, and I think it is an important positive for investors. 

 LISOVICZ: Microsoft and GE led the buying bonanza, but financial blue chips American Express and J.P. Morgan, and networking giant Cisco Systems also added solid gains. Analysts say that falling bond yields are another fact behind the newfound affection for non-tech stocks as investors search for better returns and value. 

 MICHAEL CARTY, NEW MILLENNIUM ADVISERS: I have been in the new- economy stocks for a while, but I have been dipping into the old- economy stocks because they seem to represent fair value, they seem to be grossly undervalued. 

 LISOVICZ: Especially with expectations of strong earnings from the quarter ending next week. FedEx jumped more than $2 after reporting profits that beat Wall Street`s consensus by a nickel. 

 (on camera): Some analysts say they were encouraged by the fact that the Dow industrials made it back to 11,000 and remained there. They say that could indicate staying power for a very neglected  area of the market. 

 Susan Lisovicz, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: The government`s antitrust lawsuit has hung like a cloud over Microsoft shares. In fact, even with today`s huge run-up, the stock is still down slightly on the year. That could may be finally lifting amid word that the two sides may be close to a settlement. 

 Here`s Steve Young. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): With the Microsoft antitrust trial now in the end game, the stock rallied on reports  the government might agree to remedies less harsh than breaking up the company. Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson called the parties to his chambers Tuesday to report on the progress of their federally mediated settlement talks. Message: it has been a month since he last heard oral arguments and if they don`t settle soon within a couple of weeks, he`ll issue his conclusions of law, slamming the door on anymore settlement talks. 

 Antitrust specialists say litigants don`t usually get serious about mediation until the water rises to their eyeballs. 

 KEVIN ARQUIT, CLIFFORD CHANCE ROGERS & WELL: And the time for  the tough talk and the posturing is rapidly winding down. That`s easy to do when you`re still a ways away from accountability. That`s no longer the case, and given the risks for both sides, one has to assume they`re both serious about settlement. 

 YOUNG: The last time they were in open court, the judge left the impression he might not side with a key government claim that Microsoft abused its monopoly power and illegally tied its Web browser to Windows. But Microsoft has to worry about more than 100 private consumer suits filed in 28 states. 

 ELEANOR FOX, NYU LAW SCHOOL: Microsoft, you know, has an interest in settling before any judgment, because once there`s a judgment, the private parties will use the judgment and rely on the judgment for what the judgment says, so a judgment against Microsoft is a big deal against Microsoft. 

 YOUNG: Microsoft has already been tied up in legal red tape for half a decade. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 YOUNG: And with 300 million Windows PCs in the world, if the company had to pay back consumers even $10 or $20 each for overcharging, that would add up to serious money and there would be attorney`s fees and treble damages piled on top -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, Steve Young reporting a big story. Thanks, Steve. 

 The title of "world`s most valuable company" was up for grabs today if only briefly. Cisco won those bragging rights a short time when its market value edged ahead of Microsoft`s by a mere $600 million. But by the close, Microsoft was back on top, worth 7 -- I`m sorry -- $579 billion, about $11 billion richer than Cisco. 

 BAY: Helping to power the Dow surge: General Motors. The stock ran up on reports which MONEYLINE has confirmed that News Corp. has been interested in buying DirecTV, part of GM Hughes Electronics business. GM jumped 5 1/4. Hughes Electronics, which trades as GM class H shares, soared nearly 11 1/2 to a new high. And News Corp.. slipped 1 3/4. 

 The question is: How can News Corp. get control of America`s number-one TV satellite operator? 

 Peter Viles has been following this developing story for us -- Peter. 

 VILES: Willow, in short, it won`t be easy. Rupert Murdoch does have his eye on DirecTV, the satellite television unit that is part of General Motors` Hughes division. A source familiar with News Corp.`s internal deliberations tells MONEYLINE that executives have been looking for a way to buy DirecTV for quite some time. The problem is, DirecTV is not a stand-alone company. It`s part of GM`s tracking stock, Hughes Electronics, and for that reason, all talks would have to go through Detroit. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 BURNETT: It`s very complicated, but it gives GM essentially a 100 percent veto over any transaction. Just going out and buying shares of GMH won`t cut it, because the economic ownership is controlled by GM. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VILES: News Corp.. would not comment on whether it has -- is considering 

 such a deal. It did say it has not talked to GM. GM would not comment at all. Analysts have their doubts about whether this can happen, because Hughes Electronics is not cheap. Its market value tonight: $63 billion. 

 If Murdoch went looking for a partner, one possible partner is John Malone`s media -- Liberty Media, rather, which owns a 8 percent stake in News Corp.. and a very small stake in Hughes Electronics. No comment tonight from Liberty. 

 BAY: Quite a story. Peter Viles, thank you. 

 VARNEY: Yes, it is. 

 Well, meanwhile, as GM considers it options for DirecTV, another deal could be in the making. "The Financial Times" is reporting that GM is considering making a bid for Land Rover to trump a $3 billion offer from 

 Ford. The paper says GM is attracted to the Land Rover brand. Land Rover is the luxury SUV division of BMW. 

 Here`s what`s coming up, bond traders spooked again by the Treasury Department, and they scramble for the safety of government debt. 

 BAY: We`ll hash out the move with the country`s biggest bond trader, Pimco`s Bill Gross. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: A tumultuous day in the bond market, as traders scrambled for Treasury paper, this after chewing over comments from the Treasury Department. Checking prices: the 10-year note gained 7/32; the yield 6.08 percent. The 30-year long bond rose 26 ticks, and that pushed the yield down to 5.9 percent. 

 Here`s more on that from Ceci Rodgers in Chicago. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CECI RODGERS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Yet another powerful rally in the bond pits based not on fundamentals, but fear. Investors fled to the safety of U.S. treasuries, and sold securities issued by the giant mortgage lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The turmoil followed a Treasury official`s testimony that Congress should eliminate long-held lines of credit to the two agencies. MICHAEL BOSS, IBJ LANSTON FUTURES: You have comments suggesting that the Treasury wants to back off of this implied backing of Fannie and Freddie paper, and it gets investors very, very worried. 

 RODGERS: Both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac enjoy triple-A ratings, positioning them to vie with Treasury debt for benchmark status in the bond market. But if the Treasury has its way, that might not happen. A Fannie Mae official called the Treasury official`s testimony -- quote -- "irresponsible." 

 In Washington, Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers had no comment on the market turmoil. Analysts say Summers` predecessor would have handled things differently. 

 ANDY LAPERRIERE, ISI GROUP: I think a lot of market watchers and market participants believe that Robert Rubin had a better pulse of the market and that he wouldn`t have surprised the market. 

 RODGERS: Market turmoil is not the only worry. As Treasuries rally, long-term interest rates are falling, providing a stimulus to the economy, just as the Federal Reserve is raising short-term rates to cool things off. 

 WILLIAM SULLIVAN, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: This will just encourage the Fed to continue to lift the funds target. And in many respects, we don`t have a lid on where the funds rate could be going this year. 

 RODGERS (on camera): The minutes of the Fed`s February meeting, released today, suggest that may be the case. Economists say odds are now greater that the Fed could raise interest rates by 1/2 percentage point at its next meeting in May. 

 Ceci Rodgers, CNN Financial News, Chicago. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Joining us now, the man who trades more bonds than anyone else, Pimco`s Bill Gross. 

 Bill, welcome back. 

 BILL GROSS, MANAGING DIRECTOR, PIMCO: Thank you, Willow. 

 BAY: Please, help us sort this out. Treasury official makes these comments. How does the market take that comment? 

 GROSS: Well, the market took it to mean that agency debt in the future may have less creditworthiness than they do now; if the government and the Treasury withdraws their credit lines, and I don`t think that`s a distinct possibility, but that`s the proposal nonetheless, if they withdraw their lines, then agencies, theoretically, have less of a backing than they do know from the U.S. Treasury. 

 BAY: So, Bill, if you don`t think that`s a possibility, why do you suspect the official made that proposal? 

 GROSS: Well, I think the Treasury is concerned about the growing power of Freddie Mac and Fanny Mae. They`ve been growing very rapidly. They suspect at some point down the road -- and that may be ten or 15 minutes down the road -- that the creditworthiness of those agencies will be less than they are now. Now Moody`s came out this afternoon and suggested -- affirmed that the ratings were triple A, and I suggest that that is the proper rating for Freddie Mac and Fanny Mae. But the Treasury is worried 10 or 15 years down the road, and they`re trying to nip a movement in the bud, so to speak. 

 BAY: As we mentioned, investors dumped agency debt. What did you do? 

 GROSS: Well, we bought some of that agency debt. You know, there comes a point in time where value becomes important as opposed to momentum. Treasuries have had the momentum for the past several weeks, the past several months. It`s almost like anyone that had Treasuries won the game. Nowadays, however, with agency debt being spread at a hundred basis points or 1 percent higher than Treasury debt, there comes value into the question. It becomes a value versus a momentum question, much like we have seen the stock market. So we`ve been buying a little agency debt. I am still under the assumption that Treasuries continue to do well over the next several months. 

 BAY: One of the issues that we`re wrestling with is this notion of a benchmark. 

 GROSS: Right. 

 BAY: What in your mind is the benchmark right now, and do you expect that will change? 

 GROSS: Well, the benchmark right now is now a 10-year treasury. It used to be a 30-year Treasury. It`s a 10-year Treasury now, but as the Treasury issues less and less paper, eventually -- and that`s probably two or three years down the road -- agency debt will become the benchmark almost by default. Now that`s something that the Treasury doesn`t want. It means that agency debt basically will gain on benchmark status, and therefore, trade at lower yield levels, increasing that power that I just spoke to, but for the moment, the Treasury 10-year, two or three years down the road, agencies. 

 BAY: Bill Gross, as always, thank you for joining us. 

 GROSS: Thank you, Willow. 

 VARNEY: Here`s what`s coming up. Federal Express delivers a real surprise to Wall Street. 

 BAY: The shipping company soars on better-than-expected profits. The details when MONEYLINE returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: The recent market volatility a big help to the bottom line at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter last quarter. The securities firm said first quarter net income soared 49 percent due to record trading volume. Revenues soared to nearly $7.5 billion, on profits that beat estimates by 28 cents a share. Shares of Morgan Stanley up 4 1/2 today, and they`re up nearly 45 percent in just the past month. A quick programming note for you: We`ll have more on Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in our "Bottom Line" segment. That`s tomorrow night. 

 BAY: As we reported earlier, strong earnings drove FedEx (URL: http://www.fdxcorp.com/) shares higher. The stock up 2 3/4 after it reported a 45 percent jump in third quarter profits. Despite higher fuel costs, the shipping giant beat estimates by a nickel. Earlier on CNN, its CEO said he hopes lower fuel prices this summer will help offset the recent rise. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 FRED SMITH, CEO, FEDEX: Year over year comparisons from our fourth quarter, the one we`re now in, the March, April and May quarter, will sort of even out as we go into our fiscal year 2001, because the big run-up in fuel prices started this time last year. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: Despite today`s gains, shares of FedEx are still off 36 percent from their 52-week high. 

 Exodus Communications up more than 1 1/2. Several analysts raised their price target on the Web-hosting firm to up to $234 a share. Deutsche Bank`s Alex Brown cited yesterday`s investment in Web content delivery firm Mirror Image. 

 And Blaze Software up 11 3/4 on its market debut. The e-commerce software maker priced at $16 per share. 

 VARNEY: Legal proceedings kept big-cap biotech stocks from participating in today`s market rally. Amgen, one of the biggest losers after Merrill Lynch cuts its rating on the biotech firm. It cited Amgen`s current valuation and a patent litigation suit that it`s fighting in federal court. Amgen stock down more than 4 points today. Biogen off almost 5 1/2. Prudential cut its price target after it lost an arbitration case against Schering-Plough over royalty payments on a Hepatitis C treatment. 

 Other biotechs down today include Chiron Corporation  (URL: http://www.chiron.com/) , Immunex (URL: http://www.immunex.com/) and Genzyme Corporation (URL: http://www.genzyme.com/) . 

 BAY: Just ahead on MONEYLINE, the cure for everything from cancer to arthritis could be inside your body. 

 VARNEY: The human gene, the final frontier of medicine, but who owns it? Our special series continues next, with a look at genomics and the law. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Turning now to our special series: "The Promise of Genomics, from Code to Cash." For companies in the business of gene mapping, here`s the key question: How do you stake a claim on a piece of the human body? 

 Here`s Allan Dodds Frank on this brave new world of science and the law. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ALLAN DODDS FRANK, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This week, drosophila. The complete genetic code of the fruit fly is mapped by the genomics company Celera Genomics (URL: http://www.celera.com/) . 

 Coming soon, the complete genetic code for humans. The government says the first rough draft of the human genome sequence will be laid out this summer. But the revolution in human genetic research, called genomics, also poses complicated and troubling legal and philosophical questions, starting with "Who owns life?" 

 PROF. GEORGE ANNAS, BOSTON UNIVERSITY: The two biggest issues, it`s no surprise to anybody, are patenting and privacy. The question is, who`s going to be able to patent what? And the question is, what information about our own genomes we are going to be able to keep private? 

 FRANK: Already, more than 2,000 patents on various genomes have been issued and 10,000 more are pending, patents aimed at everything from producing more nutritious corn, to curing dread diseases to cloning farm animals. 

 WILLIAM HASELTINE, HUMAN GENOME SCIENCES: Why is it so important that we protect these genes and these proteins with patents. These genes and these proteins are the drugs themselves. They`re what we put into the bottle to treat a patient with. 

 ROY WHITFIELD, CEO, INCYTE PHARMACEUTICALS: This is the wave of the future for doing pharmacology and toxicology. You`re really understanding the mechanism of the drug as opposed to historically lining up 50 rats, if you will, and seeing if 49 of them croak. 

 FRANK: Companies working on genomics want patents to protect their work in isolating and manipulating genes. 

 PROF. ARTHUR CAPLAN, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA: There`s a sense in which people say what we really have to fear about the genetic revolution is that the ethics can`t keep up, that we`re going to find ourselves with billionaires making clone babies, and giant conglomerates owning the genome, doling it out for zillions of dollars for the few who can afford it, and that`s not the worry I have. The worry I have is the ethics can keep up. 

 FRANK: The U.S. patent commissioner says the current system of 20-year protection provides incentive for inventions that benefit all. 

 COMM. TODD DICKINSON, PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS: The question of whether the genomic information is patentable, again, largely rests on the question of utility, and the new use that you found for that isolated gene. We`re not talking about that gene as it is in your body and the function it performs in your body; we`re talking about taking that gene and creating that use for it, as a diagnostic, or as a therapeutic or as a tool. 

 FRANK: Indeed, patent protection is so central to the genomics revolution that when President Clinton and British Prime Minister Tony Blair talked about it last week, confusion about their remarks knocked nearly $17 billion of market capitalization off biotechs in one day. 

 CHUCK LUDLAM, BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY ORG.: If investors need to  look at these companies, they need to look at business models or the brilliance of the company, but patent policy is not going to turn out to be a variable. The government patent policy in this area is very, very clear and very favorable. 

 FRANK: While patents protect inventors, Congress has yet to provide comprehensive laws governing what happens to genetic information  about individuals. 

 ANNAS: Do you have to share that information with your family members, who also share many of the same genetic characteristics you do, obviously, with your employer, the insurance company, the government, the Army, the FBI? I mean, that`s going to be where the real battle is going to be waged. 

 FRANK: The range of medical developments and genetic experimentation that will spring from the Humane Genome Project will pose great ethical challenges. 

 ROCHELLE SEIDE, ATTORNEY, BAKER BOTTS: Certainly cloning of people -- you know, the ability exists, and that`s where I think the philosophers, and the ethicists, and the theologians are really going to have to step in much more so than the lawyers. 

 FRANK: Genomics advances will generate profound debates. For instance, if a genomics company develops a blockbuster cure for cancer, will the government want to control pricing to assure its widespread availability, or will it be left to the free market? 

 Allan Dodds Frank, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: It is so interesting but so complicated with all of these stories yet to unfold -- science, medicine, law -- it really does create somewhat of a mine field for investors, I think. 

 VARNEY: But I do get the strong impression that it is money that is running this show at this point in time. 

 BAY: That would be the case. 

 VARNEY: We`ll see where it goes. 

 BAY: Well, don`t miss the final report in our genomics series. 

 VARNEY: Yes, we`re going to look at the biotech booms and busts of the past and what they may tell us about the current biotech craze. That`s tomorrow, here on MONEYLINE. 

 BAY: Up next, "Ahead of the Curve," some of what you need to know tonight before the markets open tomorrow. 

 VARNEY: I already know it. 

 Yes, you are watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Checking some of what could move the markets tomorrow: On the economic front: durable goods orders, those figures due out at 8:30 a.m. Eastern. Keep an eye also on the share price of Gillette (URL: http://www.gillette.com/) . After the bell, the consumer products giant said it`s going to sell its White Rain hair care brand to Diamond Products. Also watch Johnson & Johnson (URL: http://www.jnj.com/) . After the bell, it said  it`s going to stop marketing its heartburn drug, Propolsid, after reports of serious cardiovascular side-effects. The drug will still be available to some patients on a limited access basis. 

 BAY: That is MONEYLINE for this Thursday. I`m Willow Bay. 

 VARNEY: And I`m Stuart Varney. 

 Thanks for joining us. Good night from New York. 

 "CROSSFIRE" is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce  or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial  purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or 

 interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute  limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw3n00079




 E.W. Blanch shares down 50 pct on  profit warning . 

229 words
21 March 2000
16:29
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 21 (Reuters) - Shares of E.W. Blanch Holdings Inc. fell more than 50 percent on Tuesday after the insurance and reinsurance broker warned that its first-quarter profits would fall well below Wall Street forecasts, largely due to a drop in workers compensation revenue. 

 E.W. Blanch shares were down 28-1/8, or 52 percent, to 27-3/8 in morning trade on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The Dallas-based company, which gets most of its revenue from placing reinsurance cover for insurance companies, said after the stock market closed on Monday that first-quarter earnings would be 10 to 35 cents per share, down from 70 cents a year earlier and well below analysts' consensus estimate of 95 cents, as polled by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 The company cited a decline in domestic revenues from workers compensation reinsurance placements and other large nonrecurring transactions as well as lower-than-anticipated earnings from international operations. 

 The company said in a statement that results would depend "on whether certain revenue opportunities close before the end of the quarter." 

 The timing of "certain anticipated significant transactions" will also impact earnings, it said. 

 Spokesman for the company were not immediately available for comment on Tuesday. 

 ((-Bill Rigby, Financial Services Desk, 212 859 1718)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3l04boo




 (REPEAT)-E.W. Blanch issues Q1  profit warning . 

389 words
21 March 2000
16:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 DALLAS, March 20 (Reuters) - Risk management firm E.W. Blanch Holdings Inc.  late Monday said its first-quarter profits would significantly miss expectations due to a number of factors. 

 The company said it expects quarterly earnings of 10 cents to 35 cents per share, compared with analysts expectations of 95 cents per share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 The results will depend, the company said in a statement, "on whether certain revenue opportunities close before the end of the quarter." 

 First quarter earnings, for the period ended March 31, a year ago were 70 cents per diluted share. 

 The company said the shortfall was due to a decline in domestic revenues from 1999 due to workers compensation reinsurance placements and large nonrecurring transactions as well as lower than anticipated earnings from international operations. 

 Also contributing to the loss was the the timing of "certain anticipated significant transactions," the company said in a written statement. 

 A call to the company late Monday seeking further comment was not immediately returned. The release did not say how full-year earnings would be impacted, which analysts had targeted at $3.74 per share. 

 The company also said that Rodman Fox resigned, effective immediately, from the company's board of directors and as president and chief operating officer of the company's E.W. Blanch Co. subsidiary. 

 His responsibilities will be assumed by Chris Walker and Kaj Ahlmann. They will each retain their existing titles. Ahlmann is the company's vice chairman and Walker is president and chief operating officer of the company, and chief executive officer of the E.W. Blanch Co. subsidiary. 

 "While we are clearly disappointed in our anticipated first quarter results, we have great confidence in our ability to continue to grow," said Ted Blanch, the company's chairman and chief executive officer. 

 "Our core brokerage and service revenues remain stable, and we have a number of significant transactions in the pipeline. Cost savings and continued increased profitability are expected in our international operations, now that we have completed the integration of our recent Crawley Warren acquisition," he said. "We also have made a number of valuable investments that we expect to reap the benefits on in the future." 

 ((-Amy Collins, New York Newsdesk 212 859 1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3l04bkb




 E.W. Blanch issues steep Q1  profit warning . 

398 words
21 March 2000
05:09
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 DALLAS, March 20 (Reuters) - Risk management firm E.W. Blanch Holdings Inc. late Monday said its first-quarter profits will significantly miss expectations due to a number of factors. 

 The company said it expects quarterly earnings of 10 cents to 35 cents per share, compared with analysts expectations of 95 cents per share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 The results will depend, the company said in a statement, "on whether certain revenue opportunities close before the end of the quarter." 

 First quarter earnings, for the period ended March 31, a year ago were 70 cents per diluted share. 

 The company said the shortfall was due to a decline in domestic revenues from 1999 due to workers compensation reinsurance placements and large non-recurring transactions as well as lower than anticipated earnings from international operations. 

 Also contributing to the loss was the the timing of "certain anticipated significant transactions," the company said in a written statement. 

 A call to the company late Monday seeking further comment was not immediately returned. The release did not say how full-year earnings would be impacted, which analysts had targeted at $3.74 per share. 

 The company also said that Rodman Fox resigned, effective immediately, from the company's board of directors and as president and chief operating officer of the company's E.W. Blanch Co. subsidiary. 

 His responsibilities will be assumed by Chris Walker and Kaj Ahlmann. They will each retain their existing titles. Ahlman is the company's vice chairman and Walker is president and chief operating officer of the company, and chief executive officer of the E.W. Blanch Co. subsidiary. 

 "While we are clearly disappointed in our anticipated first quarter results, we have great confidence in our ability to continue to grow," said Ted Blanch, the company's chairman and chief executive officer. 

 "Our core brokerage and service revenues remain stable, and we have a number of significant transactions in the pipeline. Cost savings and continued increased profitability are expected in our international operations, now that we have completed the integration of our recent Crawley Warren acquisition," he said. "We also have made a number of valuable investments that we expect to reap the benefits on in the future." 

 The stock closed at 55-on Monday. ((Amy Collins, New York Newsdesk +212 859 1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3l03zzr




 Corel Still Sees Linux Revenue $20-$30 Million In FY2000 

 By Scott Adams 
849 words
21 March 2000
01:10
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 TORONTO -(Dow Jones)- Corel Corp. (CORL) still sees $20 million to $30 million of Linux revenue in fiscal 2000, said company president and chief executive Michael Cowpland. 

 Corel's Linux revenue in the first quarter fell to $2.3 million from $3.2 million in the fourth quarter of last year. Corel shipped its Linux operating systems in the last two days of the fourth quarter. 

 Cowpland first gave the $20-million-to-$30-million revenue range for Linux when the takeover of Inprise/Borland Corp. (INPR) was announced in February. 

 Despite the quarter-over-quarter decline in Linux revenue, Cowpland cited a study showing that Corel's Linux unit and revenue market share increasing month-to-month. 

 "The $20 (million) level looks very doable," Cowpland concluded on a conference call following first quarter results. After the call, Corel spokeswoman Stefania Allevata confirmed that this projection doesn't include Linux revenue from the possible merger with Inprise/Borland. 

 Corel began selling its Corel Linux operating system at the end of November and will have its Linux WordPerfect Office 2000 on shelves in April. 

 Cowpland shrugged off losses during the quarter, saying that other Linux companies are losing money too. "I don't see why we should be the only company that has to be currently profitable when none of the others are," Cowpland said, pointing out that Corel has a much smaller market capitalization than Linux plays such as Red Hat Inc. (RHAT). 

 To this, a conference call participant countered: "None of the other Linux companies in this quarter have $42 million of revenues from non-Linux products." 

 First quarter results showed an ongoing slump in Corel's core productivity and graphics software products. Furthermore, Corel said it expects its second and third quarter results to mirror its first quarter results. 

 Corel's first quarter revenue was $44.1 million, versus $40.3 million in the same period last year and $60.9 million in the fourth quarter. 

 Corel had to issue a profit warning about its fourth quarter and is facing shareholder lawsuits over it. 

 The first quarter loss was $12.4 million or 19 cents a share, but that included a gain of 10 cents a share on the sale of some of its interest in GraphOn Corp. (GOJO). Last year, the first quarter showed a loss of 24 cents a share, while the fourth quarter showed an operating loss of 15 cents a share. Corel said it still holds 1.6 million shares of GraphOn, plus more than 200,000 warrants. 

 Corel vice president of finance Mitch Desrochers said first quarter weakness was caused by slow graphics sales in the retail channel. First quarter graphics sales totaled $19.4 million, compared with $32 million in the previous two quarters, Desrochers said. 

 "The decline in revenue on this most recent product cycle, mainly on Draw9, is larger than previous versions," Desrochers said, adding that this is a "mature" product. "We recognize this sales pattern may continue until the next-version release in the fall of 2000." 

 First quarter productivity sales totaled $22.5 million, down from $25.5 million in the fourth quarter, Desrochers said, blaming weakening sales on the product being in mid-cycle before the next version is released. 

 Retail sales declined to $22.9 million in the quarter, from $36.6 million in the fourth quarter, Desrochers said. 

 It's hard to judge what expectations were for the quarter. Desrochers said analyst expectations were $41 million of revenue in the quarter and a loss of 16 cents a share. But later in the call, Corel officials said there was only one analyst who made a projection for the quarter. Corel officials said five or six analysts still follow the company, but most were waiting until they saw the first quarter before making quarterly projections for the year. 

 After the call, Desrochers confirmed that the projected loss of 16 cents a share in the quarter from one analyst didn't include any gains. That means the operating loss in the quarter of 29 cents a share was much wider than expected, according to that one analyst's projection, Desrochers confirmed. 

 A recent National Post newspaper article cited a portfolio manager and an analyst who were expecting about $55 million of revenue in the first quarter. 

 Corel's stock has slumped from its all-time high of 44 1/2 in December, when it benefited from Linux fever. The stock closed on Nasdaq Monday at 13 3/8, off 1/2. 

 Despite some minor shareholders of Inprise/Borland showing public dissent over the merger, Cowpland said he doesn't expect terms of the merger to change. 

 Shareholders will vote on the merger sometime around mid-to-late May, Cowpland said. 

 Corel also said it is working on wireless Internet, other Internet, and application service provider developments for its products. Corel has made investments in many startups, especially for Linux technology. 

 -Scott Adams, Dow Jones Newswires; 416-306-2026; 

 scott.adams@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010805dw3l018ex




 U.S. stocks quiet in Europe, await Fed rate vote. 

444 words
20 March 2000
12:03
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, March 20 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were quiet in European trading on Monday, with investors seen treading a cautious line ahead of Tuesday's U.S. Federal Reserve monetary policy session. 

 The Fed was widely expected to raise short-term lending rates by a quarter point, but there were lingering concerns that the U.S. central bank may opt for a half point move that could more seriously undermine investor confidence. 

 Equally there were concerns over possible comments from the Fed's Open Markets Committee on the direction of future rate policy that could destabilise the markets. 

 "It's very very quiet, the whole market is a bit scared over what might happen tomorrow," said one dealer in London. 

 Among U.S. blue chips on Instinet, only Procter & Gamble  saw any volume as European investors continued to pick up bargains after the stock's recent tumble following a profit warning from the company. 

 Elsewhere dealing was quiet, with a slim 1.0 point loss in the June future on the S&P 500 index underscoring prospects for a flat Wall Street opening. 

 Among smaller stocks, biotech group BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. traded at $29-1/4 on Instinet, up from a $26 New York close, though dealers said volume in the stock was thin. 

 No major U.S. economic indicators were due on Monday and the next important figures were durable goods orders for February, due on Thursday. 

 U.S. Treasury bonds were also little changed, with the long bond yield firming to 6.01 percent in European trade from six percent at Friday's New York close. 

 Monday's quiet conditions came as Wall Street paused for breath after last week's extreme volatility, marked by switching between blue chips and tech stocks. 


On Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average	  ended down 35.37 points or 0.3 percent at 10,595.23, a day after soaring 499 points to log its biggest one-day point gain ever.



The blue chip gauge gained 6.7 percent on the week, trimming its loss for the year to 7.9 percent.



Tech heavyweights helped buoy the Dow, led by Hewlett-Packard , up $5-1/4 at $138, while strength in tech sector giants boosted the Nasdaq composite index	  , up 1.71 percent or 80.74 points to 4,798.13.



Nasdaq fell nearly five percent over the week but was still up 17.9 percent on the year.



((David Holmes London Newsroom +44 171 542 4367 fax +44 171 542 2120, uk.equities.news@reuters.com)).



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw3k04g4c




DBusiness
Federal-Mogul Corp. laying off 1,500 workers; Engine seals and bearings manufacturer closing 2 plants, 23 warehouses to  cut  costs after large acquisitions

Bloomberg News   
243 words
16 March 2000
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
MLWK
Final
2
English
Copyright 2000, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Federal-Mogul Corp. will cut 1,500 jobs, or almost 3% of its work force, as the largest maker of engine seals and bearings closes 23 North American warehouses and combines other facilities to reduce costs.

The company expects charges of about $100 million, mostly this year, for the moves, and another $100 million in added costs over the next two years for things such as moving equipment and machinery and capital spending.

Federal-Mogul also is closing factories in Mooresville, Ind., and Milan, Mich.

Federal-Mogul has struggled to integrate large acquisitions from 1998, which included $4.9 billion for United Kingdom gasket maker T&N PLC and Cooper Industries Inc.'s replacement-parts unit.

The company's shares have fallen almost two-thirds since a Sept. 13 warning on third-quarter profit because replacement-part sales and savings from acquisitions were lower than expected.

"They bought a bad business when they bought Cooper Automotive, and now they have to fix it," said Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. analyst Stephen Girsky, who rates the company, based in Southfield, Mich., a "buy."

Federal-Mogul shares fell $1.25, or 8.2%, to $13.938.

The shares, which have fallen 66% in the past year, closed as high as $71.813 during 1998.

Document MLWK000020100319dw3g00qup




 LEISURE & ARTS 
 Major Auction Houses Go Under the Hammer 

 By Katharine Kyes Leab 
2,420 words
15 March 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A24
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NOW THAT WE KNOW that Sotheby's and Christie's allegedly had an agreement to "fix, raise, stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels the commissions and premiums they charged," to quote one of the class-action lawsuits against them, and that somebody apparently was dumb enough to write it all down, two large questions remain: How did the so-called Big Two auction houses get in this mess, and what is the likely outcome? The answers have been slow in coming; so far we've seen a great deal of hastily written opinion but not much solid analysis. But beyond the glib generalizations about hubris and small fine-arts peddlers puffing themselves up through publicity and association with celebrity is another story -- the story of fine-arts auctioneering in this half-century, a history that made the recent flap almost inevitable. 

 Fine-arts auctioneering used to be different. Before the 1970s, auctioneering was a profession, particularly in England. Fine-arts auctioneering was (and is) that branch of the profession which dealt with paintings, books and manuscripts, tapestries, silver, furniture and other artistic objects. People of means, especially people of declining means, had a family auctioneer as well as a family lawyer and a family doctor. In disposing of unwanted or unaffordable paintings, furniture and the like, the auctioneer represented the seller and charged the seller a fee for so doing. The auctioneer had access to a wide variety of goods and maintained a permanent building for the display of these goods and for competitive bidding. The fine-arts auction always had an aura of glamour and theatricality to it, making fine works look finer and ordinary household goods seem desirable. The catalogue description for a prayer book whose binding was in disgraceful shape might characterize the binding as "worn and rubbed -- by devotional kissing?" But despite these excesses, the major auction venues also became known for their staffs of experts, some of them leading authorities in their respective fields. 

 The fine-arts auction was an almost closed system at the buying end, for the major auctioneers almost always sold to dealers, not to the general public. The dealers tried to keep the auction prices low, occasionally even appointing one of their number to bid for the group in the salesroom and then holding informal auctions on their own; this form of bid rigging was called "ringing" the auction. The auctioneers tried to force the prices up, and they came to combat attempts at ringing by setting up a system of "reserves," prices below which an item would not be sold, and by calling out fictive bids "off the wall" at least until the reserve price was reached. It was a grand, adversarial game, full of sneaky gambits. The dealers and the auction houses had a symbiotic relationship, and the most prominent and favored dealers in London enjoyed reserved places at a table in the salesroom that was situated just below the auctioneer's rostrum. The auctioneer might favor one of these dealers by gaveling down an occasional lot without waiting to squeeze out all possible bids, but there was never any doubt that in the end the auction house represented the seller. 

 The development of a world economy and advances in air transport and communications gave the auction houses many new opportunities, but the nature of the Big Two did not change until the 1970s, when they became publicly traded corporations. Since then they have been sometimes public and sometimes private companies, depending on ownership (Sotheby's is now a Michigan corporation, headquartered in Bloomfield Hills), but they have come to be wholly corporate in their thinking. They went from being representatives of the seller to being brokers, loyal to neither the buyer nor the seller, but only to themselves and their shareholders. Fine-arts auctioneering, for the Big Two, stopped being a profession and became a business. 

 In a world where the auction houses could get their shiny catalogues and their message to almost anybody anywhere, why shouldn't they sell directly to the final client if they could? If you're selling glamour as well as goods, why put a dealer between yourself and the person you're dazzling? The dazzled buyer just might be a distressed seller later on. Before long the Big Two's financial men fastened on the idea of the buyer's premium, invented by early Roman slave-traders and long levied by many continental auction houses on behalf of their various government bodies. Why not institute a buyer's premium and pocket it yourself? 

 The beauty of the buyer's premium was that it could provide a modicum of stability to a business that depended overly on the availability of disposable income and on who happened to die, divorce, or decline in a given year. With the buyer's premium, you could play both sides. If goods were scarce, you could cut the seller's commission to beat out your competition for the goods, and still make a profit from the buyer's side. If goods were plentiful, you could declare juicy dividends or squirrel away the proceeds from both commissions to get you through the next bad winter. And the early 1970s were a very wintry period indeed for the auction houses -- bad stock market, soaring oil prices, near panic, and problems in England with luxury VAT and other taxes. On May 31, 1975, Christie's, without any warning to the dealers, announced that a 10% buyer's premium would be introduced in London and that the seller's premium would be reduced to 10%. (In fact, the buyers' premium was also a tax on the seller, who now would not share in the last 10% of the price the buyer actually paid.) Sotheby's followed suit within 72 hours. It was clear that Jo Floyd of Christie's and Peter Wilson of Sotheby's had discussed the matter in advance of Christie's announcement, but histories of both houses refer to their communication as a courtesy call from Floyd to Wilson. In any event, there is no known written record of any collusion in the matter. 

 The dealers were furious. The new charge made it far more difficult to buy for their own stock from individuals or at auction, and meant that more of their business would be that of acting as bidding agents for buyers -- going to the galleries, taking an expert look at the object, bidding, arranging shipping, and guaranteeing -- all for a paltry 10% fee. The dealers boycotted, fumed, and then sued on the grounds of collusion and not providing any new services, but their trade associations settled on Sept. 30, 1982, rather than risk the enormous costs of a lawsuit and the damage to the art market that would ensue. 

 By the time this buyer's premium kerfuffle had played itself out, the center of the fine-arts auction world had shifted to New York, where Sotheby's had tried not to follow Christie's in introducing the premium and had gotten clobbered as a result, since Christie's could reduce the sellers' commission to near zero and still make money. Sotheby's began charging a buyer's premium in New York in 1979. And the premium remained a 10% fact of auction life in New York until 1992, as the Big Two whaled away at each other, competing like crazy for every collection, ferreting out every impressionist painting that might appeal to a Japanese buyer -- until the Japanese deserted the salesrooms at the beginning of the '90s. 

 The financial markets fell, and boom became bust for the auction houses, whose sales dropped by over 50% and whose costs and staffs then were cut by 20%. Citing the "erosion" of commissions to sellers, Sotheby's began charging 15% on the first $50,000 of any lot price on January 1, 1993, with Christie's adopting the identical rate as of March 1, blaming, without blush or smirk, the high costs caused by private buyers, who "require more assistance than dealers do." 

 The rise in the buyer's premium helped, but not enough, especially with marketing costs rising 40% in 1994. A second rise in the premium would be unwise, and so the seller's commission came under scrutiny in 1995. Christie's and then Sotheby's introduced a standard sliding scale of costs to sellers, which meant that the more you consigned, the less you were charged; the new scale also meant that the days when large-scale consignors could whipsaw the auction houses down to zero percent were over. The 2% floor on items worth millions of dollars could make a big difference to the revenues of both houses. Either one could still cheat and cut the commission to nothing, but except in the rarest of instances, zeroing out would be a suicidal gesture. With the matter of the sellers' fees settled, the auction houses went on competing, with blockbuster spectaculars that cost a huge amount to present, as well as bringing in enormous sums. 

 As e-business became ubiquitous, Christie's dipped a toe into the electronic waters and then decided that somebody else could test the undertow. Sotheby's made a $42.1 million commitment to e-business, hoping to join the new economy and hoping that its stock would rise to e-levels. Sothebys.com represents another basic shift in the nature of Sotheby's business, moving from being the broker between buyer and seller to "Site Provider," with no responsibilities at all to the buyer or the seller (except in the case of goods consigned by Sotheby's itself). Dealers thus become central to the business in a new way; Sotheby's has entered into exclusive contracts for Internet selling with some 4,000 dealers. The idea behind Sothebys.com is a good one, and the savings in staff time and storage costs are potentially huge. But so far Sothebys.com seems to be about as successful as 1971's Sotheby's cigarette brand, which disappeared within a year. 

 The existence of an antitrust investigation had become known in 1997, when Christie's disclosed the matter as part of a filing in London announcing that it would raise $75 million in long-term debt to finance its move to Rockefeller Center. Christie's revealed that it had received a subpoena "seeking documents relating to the conduct of the U.S. art market" and that it understood that other auctioneers and a number of prominent New York art dealers had received similar subpoenas. At the time, most informed people thought the prime target might be bid rigging by art dealers. The Big Two were asked for documents relating to the setting of buyers' premiums and sellers' commissions, but they and their fees did not seem to be central to the investigation. Many people didn't seem to understand that those fees were the essence of their business. 

 All seemed quiet until this January, when Christie's suddenly made a deal with the investigators in return for amnesty, whereupon Alfred Taubman (Chairman) and Diana "Dede" Brooks (CEO) of Sotheby's both disappeared in a puff of smoke. In the art precincts of New York, rumors spread that somebody had provided the Feds with a smoking gun in the form of written notes. Sotheby's stock sank to $14.50 on February 22, but has since recovered, closing yesterday at $20.12, below its top in the 1998-99 period but still above the usual teens of the previous years. Though $2.3 billion in goods passed through Sotheby's salesrooms worldwide in 1999, the total revenues of Sotheby's Holdings were $442.6 million, with net income of only $32.9 million. 

 The lawsuits filed on behalf of consignors and buyers allege that they paid Sotheby's and Christie's higher fees than they would have paid had there been free and open competition; and the lawsuits on behalf of purchasers of Sotheby's Holdings stock between February 11, 1997, and February 21, 2000, claim that because of this alleged conspiracy and the failure to disclose it, the stock price was artificially inflated, making it more expensive to buy. Sotheby's, preparing for the coming battle, passed on its fourth-quarter 1999 dividend. 

 New sellers' commissions and buyers' premiums have been set by the Big Two. They are more complex, similar to each other, and feature a "the-more-you-play-the-less-you-pay" enticement to heavy hitters which now includes purchases in a calendar year as well as consignments. Moreover, if you consign more than $5 million in goods, then terms will be negotiated on a case-by-case basis, signaling a return to the possibility of a zero sellers' commission if the item is desirable enough. (One wonders if this is precisely where collusion may have reared its ugly head.) Sotheby's.com will continue to charge 10% at all price levels. As usual, the buyers' premium at both houses is higher. Christie's will charge 17.5% on the first $80,000 and then 10%, while Sotheby's will charge 20% on the first $15,000, 15% from there to $100,000, and then 10%. 

 As the class-action lawsuits pile up -- you can even join one by filling in a form on a Web site -- many people have been asking whether Christie's and especially Sotheby's will weather this legal storm. Possible fines for antitrust violations are one thing, but myriad pouncing litigators are another. History indicates that Sotheby's and Christie's will most certainly survive, though they will probably be changed by a whole slew of new regulations. They undoubtedly will be forced to supply more disclosure than anybody cares to have, and perhaps such abuse-prone areas as absentee bidding will be codified by such agencies as the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs. If proven, the class-action lawsuits will be damaging indeed. But the Big Two have survived wartime bombing, earlier scandals and any number of financial crises. The auction business is a tough business, and you have to be tough to be in it. Chances are that if there ever is an Apocalypse, Sotheby's and Christie's will be there to sell the rubble. 

 --- 

 Katharine Kyes Leab is editor of American Book Prices Current and co-author of "The Auction Companion" (Harper & Row, 1981). 

Document j000000020010807dw3f007jl




 FOCUS-Reckitt sets growth targets for 2000. 

 By David Jones 
750 words
15 March 2000
15:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, March 15 (Reuters) - Newly merged Anglo-Dutch consumer products company Reckitt Benckiser Plc on Wednesday promised accelerated sales and profits growth for the current year as it raised media spending behind key brands. 

 The group formed by the merger of Britain's Reckitt & Colman and Dutch Benckiser, which was completed in December last year, plans to accelerate revenue growth to five percent and after tax profits growth to 25 percent in constant currency terms. 

 New chief executive of the merged group, Bart Becht, said this year's targets for growth were supported by a 10 percent increase in media spend behind its 50 major brands as the group reported a 20 percent fall in underlying 1999 pre-tax profits. 

 "The merger has thrown up extra funds to place behind our key brands, and we are better placed than most in the industry to grow," Becht said in a results conference call. 

 The Lysol disinfectant and Finish dishwasher products group reported 1999 underlying pre-tax profits of 288.7 million pounds ($454.2 million), in line with forecasts, after 1998's 360.3 million, on sales which fell one percent to 3.05 billion. 

 Analysts said the five percent revenue growth target was higher than expected, and with media spending up 10 percent investors reacted positively by marking the shares up 1.9 percent to 465 pence by 0930 GMT in a lower London stock market. 

 The shares have underperformed the FTSE All Share Index by 20 percent over the last 12 months, with the shares slipping to a new low of 431 pence only last week. 

 "The five percent sales target is higher than our own four percent forecast and with media spend up we see this as positive for the shares," said one consumer goods analyst. 

 NEW POWERBALLS 

 Becht said the increased media spend would go behind new products such as PowerBall 2-in-1, a dishwasher powder and rinse aid in one, just launched in Germany, and insecticide Mortein which uses electrically charged particles to seek out bugs. 

 He said the new company plans to sell off 75 minor brands, worth around 7-8 percent of turnover, to focus on its 50 major brands in five categories - fabric care, surface care, dishwasher products, health and personal and home care. 

 He said media spending would rise by 40-50 million pounds to around ten percent of group net revenues, and added Reckitt was largely unaffected by the reasons behind a shock profits warning last week from U.S. consumer giant Procter & Gamble . 

 After what Becht describes as a "pretty dismal year" in 1999, Reckitt is looking for expansion in Japan, Korea, the Philippines and Indonesia, and will unveil its own internet strategy this summer to improve the way it does business. 

 "In summary, we are confident that 2000 will be a year of progress and accelerated growth for Reckitt Benckiser," he said. 

 The group announced a final dividend of 12.8 pence a share to give a full year unchanged payout of 25.5p, as promised by the group last July. 

 The combined company said in February that it expects to cut total annual costs by 160 million pounds by the end of 2001 at a one-off cost taken in the 1999 accounts of 220 million. 

 It added that the first tranche of 38 million pounds of annual cost savings will come through in the current year, and it would cut working capital by 100 million pounds in the current year to help meet merger targets. 

 The deal, a takeover by Reckitt of Benckiser but one which left the company dominated by Benckiser executives, brought together the former's brands such as Lysol and Dettol disinfectants, Harpic lavatory cleaners and Lemsip and Disprin 'flu treatments with the latter's Calgonit and Finish dishwashing products, creating the world's leading household products group. 

 The combined company faces the task of driving sales in the lacklustre ex-Reckitt businesses in the current year, after Reckitt issued three profits warnings within 13 months. 

 Reckitt's first profits warning in November 1998 led to the surprise decision of its chief executive, Vernon Sankey, to resign the following February, but this only led to two further profit warnings in March 1999 and December 1999. ($1=.6356 Pound) ((London newsroom, +44 171 542-7972 fax +44 171 583-3769, uk.equities.news@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3f04h6f


 Business 
 MONEYLINE; Oracle`s CEO 

 Willow Bay, Rhonda Schaffler, Charles Molineaux, Allan Dodds Frank, Bill Dorman, Wolf Blitzer, Steve Young, Peter Viles, Louise Schiavone 
8,158 words
14 March 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE: Tonight on MONEYLINE, a decision by the White House leads to an all-out biotech bust. The upshot? The Nasdaq`s second-worst point loss ever. 

 The oracle of Redwood Shores -- we`ll talk with Larry Ellison, as his company shatters profit expectations. 

 The doyen of domestic style beats the street as well, but her stock has stumbled since its debut. We`ll ask Martha Stewart why. 

 And 19 charged in a sweeping insider-trading scandal involving some of Wall Street`s most venerable firms. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight  from New York, Willow Bay. 

 BAY: Good evening and welcome to MONEYLINE. Stuart Varney is on assignment. 

 Tonight, another Nasdaq nosedive. The composite index plunged for the second-straight session, but today the damage was even worse, the Nasdaq sliding more than 4 percent on top of yesterday`s nearly 3 percent sell-off. Today`s frightening jolt is one for the history books. The composite index posted its second-biggest one-day point loss ever, down more than 200 points. But in percentage terms, it doesn`t rank in the top 10. The catalyst behind today`s drop: biotech stocks. These recent highfliers sank in a dramatic sell-off that left investors stunned. 

 Rhonda Schaffler has more on why Wall Street had a serious case of the biotech blues. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 RHONDA SCHAFFLER, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): If there was ever a momentum story on Wall Street it was biotech stocks, and if there was ever a brick wall, biotech momentum players hit it today. Biotech stocks nearly dropped off the screen after President Clinton announced an agreement between the U.S. and Britain to make public the genetic sequencing information discovered by the Human Genome Project. Investors, concerned that biotech companies would lose rights to their own genetic research, bailed out of the sector. The AMEX Biotech Index fell 13 1/2 percent today and is down 31 percent since hitting a 52-week high last week. Hardest hit? Those companies  involved in genetic mapping: Affymetrix (URL: http://www.affymetrix.com/) , Human Genome Sciences (URL: http://www.hgsi.com/) , Celera Genomics (URL: http://www.celera.com/) , Protein Design (URL: http://www.pdl.com/) Labs, and Millennium Pharmaceuticals (URL: http://www.mlnm.com/) all plunged. Some say the sector was overbought and may still have life. 

 PHIL ROTH, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: That`s a normal pull back, so investors must be prepared to see this kind of volatility, but I`d look for the stocks to begin to grab around these levels. 

 SCHAFFLER: The biotech downdraft pulled the Nasdaq to its second biggest point loss ever, off by more than 4 percent. The Nasdaq`s freefall unnerved some big board traders as well and the Dow industrials tumbled in a late-day sell-off. The trouble spots? ALCOA (URL: http://www.alcoa.com/) down almost 7 on news it`s buying Cordant Technologies (URL: http://www.cordanttech.com/) for $2.3 billion in cash, Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com/) , General Electric (URL: http://www.ge.com) , McDonald`s (URL: http://www.mcdonalds.com/)  and General Motors (URL: http://www.gm.com) also lost on the day. 

 With the market off so sharply so early in the week, some strategists were trying to keep it all in perspective. 

 ARTHUR GRAY, CARRET & CO.: I have mixed emotions, because number one, I`m -- I don`t like to see anybody lose money. I mean, I can`t be happy if people are losing money. On the other hand, the sooner these excesses are taken out of the market, the sooner I can get back in being fully invested again. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 SCHAFFLER: Another fact to keep in perspective, the Nasdaq is still up 15 percent this year even after two very brutal sessions. The blue chips, however, not so lucky. The Dow is down 14 percent on the year, off 16 percent from the high, even deeper into a correction -- Willow. 

 BAY: Rhonda Schaffler at the New York Stock Exchange, thank you. 

 Taking a closer look at today`s nail-biting session, as Rhonda mentioned, the Dow started the day in the plus column, the blue-chip index up more than 96 points, but it did not last. The Dow followed the Nasdaq lower, and in the last hour of trading the  selling intensified, the Dow down more than 135 points to end at 9,811. As you might imagine, losers beat winners by a 4-to3 margin, 38 stocks hit 52-week highs; 135 hit 52-week lows. 

 Over on the Nasdaq, it, too, started in positive territory. The index raced back above 5,000, up more than 106 points in the first half hour of trading, but the biotech bust took its toll, and by the close, the Nasdaq fell 200 points to 4,706. The Nasdaq is now down 6.8 percent in the last two days. 

 Joining us now from the center of today`s action, Charles Molineaux. He`s standing by at the Nasdaq market site -- Charles. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Willow. Today`s actually the day market strategists had hoped to see technology investors buy the Nasdaq out of yesterday`s slump. And as you pointed out, the Nasdaq started today with a rally, but plunged more than 300 points from its high to close down -- yes -- 200, its second worst one-day point loss ever thanks to the vertigo-inducing biotech sell-off. 

 Analysts say the news out of Washington on biotechs isn`t nearly as dire as some panicky momentum investors think it is. But after biotechnology stocks dramatic run up, any reason will do for profit taking, and down they went 12 1/2 percent on the Nasdaq. Biotech big- cap Amgen (URL: http://www.amgen.com/) fell 10 percent. Epimmune (URL: http://www.cytelcorp.com/) and Neurogen (URL: http://www.neurogen.com/) lost more than 20. Diacrin (URL: N/A) and Hyseq  (URL: N/A) lost more than 30 percent on the day today. The industrial sector and computers also lost ground, as chip stocks -- another leg of this bull market -- fell 6 1/2 percent. KLA Tencor (URL: http://www.kla.com/) fell 9 percent. Xilinx (URL: http://www.xilinx.com/) lost 10. And a third leg of this market, Internet stocks like RealNetworks (URL: http://www.real.com/) , Excite @Home (URL: http://www.home.net/) , and CMGI (URL: http://www.cmgi.com/) also sank 4 percent. 

 One of the Nasdaq`s big caps, Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) reported better than expected earnings after the close. Now, it lost $1.75 during regular trading, but after the announcement it picked up almost $7 from its closing numbers. Market watchers say today`s failed rally does not bode well for the Nasdaq and if the composite doesn`t recover this week it could be on its way to the correction most of them think is coming, and they`re looking nervously toward the news on wholesale and retail inflation coming later this week, some expect the numbers will be bearishly strong -- Willow. 

 BAY: Charles Molineaux, thank you. 

 Believe it or not, despite today`s biotech bust, the sector is still one of the best performing groups over the past year. The numbers are staggering. Medarex (URL: http://www.medarex.com/) , for example, it`s up more than 3,000 percent over the past 52 weeks. CuraGen (URL: http://www.curagen.com/) up nearly 2,000 percent. Other high flyers still going strong, Abgenix (URL: http://www.abgenix.com/) , Myriad Genetics (URL: http://www.myriad.com/) , and Gene Logic. 

 Our first guest tonight says the sector was flying so high it was asking for a comedown. Hugh Johnson joins us now from Albany. Hugh, welcome back. 

 HUGH JOHNSON, FIRST ALBANY: Thanks, Willow, nice to be with you. 

 BAY: It was just ripe for a fall and the news out of Washington was all it took? 

 JOHNSON: Yes, that`s in the biotech sector, but it`s well --goes well beyond biotech, goes to the whole technology sector. You know, when we have Nasdaq up 85 percent last year and some stocks doubling in one quarter, a real period of speculation and after a period of that level of speculation, whether it`s biotech or the rest of the technology sector, it`s only common sense to expect you`re going to  have an adjustment correction or something really severe on the downside. This is what financial market history tells us to prepare for and now we`re in the middle of it. 

 BAY: So, first the high flying, now two days of significant selling, you think we`re in for a nasty correction here? 

 JOHNSON: Yes, I think we`re in the middle of a nasty correction. I think 

 the good news on this, Willow, quite frankly, is that there`s usually a period of denial, which in a correction adjustment or bear market and it`s followed by a period of sort of capitulation, where you throw out all of the stocks, not just the ones that have been losers, but the ones that have been your winners, you throw out the... 

 BAY: So you -- so where are we now? So where are we now? Are we past denial? 

 JOHNSON: I think we`re not quite, Willow, in the middle of the capitulation, but that seems to be coming over the next one, two, or three weeks. I think that`s what we`re going to see. In other words, more downside in the technology sector and the biotech sector before we hit the bottom. 

 BAY: So what you`re saying is the winners, the stocks that we have counted on to deliver are really going to start to get knocked around now if we enter this capitulation phase as you describe it? 

 JOHNSON: Yes, you know, I hate to use the expression that bear markets and corrections, they take no prisoners, everything gets shot. But that`s the truth, that`s what financial market history tells us, and we`re in the process of doing that now. Even the good stocks of the last year are coming back to much more realistic levels. The healthy 

 part of this is that they`re coming down to levels that make a lot more sense, not price earnings ratios or valuations, which are too high. 

 BAY: We`ll try to remember that and all the selling, some healthy realism. Thanks, Hugh Johnson. 

 JOHNSON: You`re welcome. 

 BAY: Coming up on MONEYLINE, more on the rough day in the markets. 

 Plus, one of the biggest insider-trading schemes ever, brought down today by the feds. We`ll have the inside story. 

 Plus, call her the queen of all media. We`ll talk live with Martha Stewart about her first earnings report and how she is conquering the Web. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: It is described as one of the biggest insider trading schemes ever. This afternoon, the U.S. attorney`s office, in conjunction with the Securities & Exchange Commission, announced the criminal charges against 19 people who allegedly made millions in illegal trading. 

 As Allan Dodds Frank explains, the scheme involved confidential information from two powerful brokerages that got spread around in cyberspace. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ALLAN DODDS FRANK, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This man, John Freeman, a 34-year-old graphics designer, was the architect of one of the biggest insider trading schemes ever. Freeman pleaded guilty today in federal court to conspiracy and insider trading in connection with information on 23 deals, which he stole while he worked at Goldman Sachs (URL: http://www.gs.com/) , then later at Credit Suisse First Boston. A total of 19 defendants were charged. 

 MARY JO WHITE, U.S. ATTORNEY, NEW YORK: In terms of both the numbers of defendants and numbers of deals, this case represents the largest single criminal prosecution of an insider trading scheme. 

 This is also the first criminal case charging the use of the Internet to pass inside information: insider trading millennium style. 

 FRANK: Freeman, a full-time employee for Phillip Morris, who moonlighted at the brokerages, passed insider information to Internet chat room buddies, neighbors, co-workers at Phillip Morris, and even customers at a French restaurant in exchange for a 10 percent cut of the profits. 

 RICHARD WALKER, SECURITY & EXCHANGE COMMISSION: The Internet was the origination of the scheme, where three people who didn`t know one another previously met one another in a chat room to discuss another stock and found a common ground. And from those origins, the scheme spread out. 

 FRANK: Also pleading guilty, James Cooper, a 41-year-old insurance broker from Bowling Green, Kentucky, who first encountered Freeman in 1997 in an AOL (URL: http://www.aol.com/) investor chat room. 

 LEWIS SCHILIRO, ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, FBI: These defendants thought using the Internet would provide them anonymity. It did not. 

 FRANK: Cooper also passed information to his brother, a dentist, and a broker at the Bowling Green, Kentucky office of Morgan Keegan. That broker then spread tips to his clients. 

 (on camera): The two men who pleaded guilty will not be sentenced until at least September to allow prosecutors to determine how fully they are cooperating. In the meantime, the investigation continues. At least five people who traded on the information, including 

 one who made $2.1 million, have not yet been charged. 

 Allan Dodds Frank, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Two IPOs top tonight`s "MONEYLINE Movers." FairMarket (URL: http://www.fairmarket.com/) more than doubled on its market debut, up 31 1/2. It provides software and services that help companies host online auctions. Microsoft owns  a 21 percent stake in Fairmarket. 

 RADVision (URL: http://www.radvision.com/) soared nearly 36 on its debut. The networking equipment maker is based in Israel. 

 And Johnson & Johnson (URL: http://www.jnj.com/) jumped 2 3/4. Salomon Smith Barney upgraded the health care and consumer products maker to a buy rating. It called J&J a cheap stock with reliable earnings. 

 Despite today`s gains, Johnson & Johnson is still off 32 percent from its 52-week high. 

 In tonight`s "Tech Watch," AT&T (URL: http://www.att.com/) said its shareholders approved a plan to create a tracking stock for its wireless operations: the move intended to unlock the performance of AT&T Wireless, the No. 1 U.S. mobile phone provider. Up to 20 percent of AT&T Wireless will be offered within the next two months, which could raise $10 billion. 

 AT&T gained a quarter today after big swings. It is slightly lower than it was at this time last year. 

 For more high-tech news, log on to our Web site, cnnfn.com. 

 Next on MONEYLINE, she`s been called the master of the domestic universe. We`ll talk with Martha Stewart, out with her company`s first full earnings since going public. Stay with us. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Checking some of the stocks that hit 52-week lows today: Anheuser-Busch (URL: http://www.anheuser-busch.com/) , Archer Daniels Midland (URL: http://www.admworld.com/) , Charter Communications (URL: http://www.chartercom.com/) , Coca-Cola (URL: http://www.cocacola.com/) , and Royal Caribbean  (URL: http://www.royalcaribbean.com/) Cruises. 

 An earnings winner today:  Martha Stewart (URL: http://www.marthastewart.com/) Living Omnimedia, out with its first profit report covering a full quarter. The company earned five cents a share last quarter, easily beating expectations. 

 Driving those results: strong revenue growth in direct commerce and Internet ventures, which include Martha By Mail and MarthaStewart.com. 

 But the company`s push to build an Internet presence does not mean Martha Stewart is trading like an Internet stock. The shares are down 46 percent from their high after the company went public last fall. 

 Joining us now, the woman behind a multimedia empire, Martha Stewart. 

 MARTHA STEWART, CEO, MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA: Hi. 

 BAY: So good earnings report, your stock drops today -- welcome to Wall Street. 

 STEWART: Yes, indeed. 

 BAY: Do you think, in all seriousness, that Wall Street`s been  trying to figure out the company a little bit and how to value it, because of its diversity? 

 STEWART: Yes, I think so. We`re not really -- we`re not following in anybody`s footsteps. We really are pioneering a new kind of omnimedia company with a lot of content and Internet possibilities. So it`s kind of hard to really place us in any one group. We have many  analysts following us, three in almost every single bank. 

 BAY: That`s a lot of analysts. With all due respect to your presence, one of the sexier things about Martha Stewart Omnimedia is your Internet strategy. While your Internet revenues -- am I right? --were up about 89 percent, which is good news, I`m wondering, are you following what we would now consider a typical Internet strategy, which is to forgo short-term profits to invest in technology and to build market share? 

 STEWART: Well, part of our plan is really to invest quite heavily for our company in our Internet strategy, which includes Internet direct commerce, which includes the dissemination of information, which includes an investment in BlueLight.com, which is the Yahoo! (URL: http://www.yahoo.com/) , SOFTBANK <http://www.softbank.co.jp/> , and Martha Stewart, and Kmart (URL: http://www.kmart.com/) Internet sites. 

 So we`re really trying very hard to make sense of a confusing, to a lot of people, marketplace. 

 BAY: So the answer is yes, you`re in investment mode. Will we see more alliances, like the one with Kmart? 

 STEWART: Well, we don`t know yet. Of course, we`re looking at lots of possibilities, a lot of strategic alliances. We already have some very significant ones with Kmart, with our other retail partners. 

 But in terms of our Internet strategy, we really want to be your home on the Web, with a selection of product that is really interesting and useful for the homemaker, a lot of proprietary product, and a lot of information too. 

 BAY: What with about your retail strategy? Will you continue to stick with Kmart and mass market, or should we look for you to broaden your product line and broaden the actually market segment that you target? 

 STEWART: Well, actually, we`re in every single level of the retail pyramid, from the mass market with Kmart here in the United States and Zellers, we go up the line a little ways to Sears, then we are at Calico Corners, with our home fashions, and at several other retailers, and at the very top of the pyramid is Martha by Mail. 

 BAY: How is -- today, you had your first earnings report, your first conference call. How is managing, running a public company different? 

 STEWART: Well, it`s not any different than what we were doing before. It just seems to be more frequent. With quarterly earning reports, you know, we were a fully audited company. We had a lot of numbers already prepared for our IPO, but in terms of... 

 BAY: Is that any different for you? I mean, but it must be -- mastering Wall Street and managing their expectations, it must be a bit of a challenge. 

 STEWART: Well, We have an excellent CFO, Helen Murphy. Sharon Patrick, our president and COO, is very busy with our strategic alliances and our plans for the future with me. So we`re a real company now. We have it all in place. Now we just have to make sure that we overdeliver. 

 BAY: Quick question, if you don`t overdeliver, if you`re faced with bad news, will you be as front and center? 

 STEWART: I certainly hope so. 

 BAY: We do, too. 

 Martha Stewart, thank you. 

 Just ahead on MONEYLINE: the White House reveals the details of a landmark trade deal with China. But will Congress like what it reads? 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: A dramatic new push by the Clinton administration to win Congressional support for trade with China. For the first time today, details of the November deal struck between the White House and China have been made public. The deal, which would help usher China into the World Trade Organization, faces stiff opposition in the House. 

 And as Bill Dorman explains, those most opposed are in the president`s own party. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BILL DORMAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Here`s the book on trade with China, at least according to the Clinton administration. It`s 250 pages, going through every line of a deal struck by negotiators last year. The White House is taking the unusual step of making the details of the deal public, as part of its campaign to convince Congress to grant China normal trade relations, instead of debating the issue every year. 

 LAWRENCE SUMMERS, TREASURY SECRETARY: Regardless of how Congress votes, China will be a member of the WTO. This is not about whether China will have access to our market or not. Regardless of how Congress votes, they will continue to be able to sell goods in the United States. DORMAN: The trade deal would cut tariffs, charges on products shipped to China, from vegetables and other farm products to manufactured goods. U.S. computers and semiconductors would face no tariffs by 2005, the same year U.S. banks would have full access to the Chinese market. The trade agreement would also allow U.S. businesses to own their own distribution networks inside China, instead of relying on local partners. 

 But no part of the deal would apply if Congress turns down permanent normal trade relations with China. 

 ANN HARRISON, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY: If that happens, it`s to the U.S. disadvantage, because the U.S., in negotiating a bilateral deal with China in advance of the WTO negotiations, gets to extract a lot of concessions for itself. 

 DORMAN: The AFL-CIO remains the biggest opponent of the China trade deal. Union president John Sweeney today sent his own note to Congress, urging members that -- quote -- "This is not the time to give China a blank check." 

 (on camera): The debate in Washington will focus on a vote count in the House of Representatives, but for businesses, the China trade issue has already been settled, and this is a deal they want. 

 DORMAN: Bill Dorman, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: The trade pact will also mean lower tariffs for some obscure corners of corporate America, including trout farmers, and makers  of Wigs, dental floss and rickshaws. 

 Well, now for a look at the day`s other top stories outside the world of business. Wolf Blitzer has that in tonight`s MONEYLINE news digest -- Wolf. 

 WOLF BLITZER, CNNfn ANCHOR: Thanks, Willow. 

 Polls in six Southern states will close shortly, and so could the competition for the Democratic and Republican nominations for president. Voters in Tennessee, Texas, Oklahoma, Mississippi, Louisiana and Florida are casting their ballots today. Texas Governor George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore hope to win enough delegates to  focus their campaigns on the general election in November. 

 Also tonight, a law supported by Bush`s brother, Florida Governor Jeb Bush, is shot down in court. A Florida State judge ruled the country`s first school voucher law unconstitutional, saying tax dollars could not be used for private education. The program helped children from troubled public schools go to private schools. 

 And Kennedy family member Michael Skakel was arraigned today on charges he killed a neighbor in Greenwich, Connecticut 25 years ago. Skakel is a nephew of the late Senator Robert Kennedy. Today he approached the mother of murder victim Martha Moxley and said -- in his words -- "I feel your grief, but you`ve got the wrong guy." 

 I`ll have much more on all those stories tonight on "THE WORLD TODAY." That`s at 8:00 p.m. Eastern, 5:00 Pacific -- Willow. 

 BAY: Thanks, Wolf. And of course, CNN will be keeping eye on those primary results. 

 When MONEYLINE returns, the biotech sector heads for the emergency room. We`ll tell you which high-fliers spilled the most blood. And Oracle blazes a trail of earnings glory. We`ll talk with founder and chief executive Larry Ellison. 

 Stay with us. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: In tonight`s headlines, the year`s highest fliers crashing back to Earth and taking the Nasdaq down with them, the biotechs demolished. 

 After the bell, Oracle blows past predictions with powerhouse profits. We`ll talk with the company`s maverick founder and CEO, Larry Ellison. 

 And the unstoppable American consumer, more evidence of a nationwide spending spree a week before the Fed`s next decision on interest rates. 

 But first our top story, the Nasdaq`s precipitous slide. The index took its second triple-digit dive of the week just days after powering through 5,000. The index traded higher until mid-day, but then capsized, closing down 200 points to 4,706, the second worst point loss ever. The blue chips followed a similar trajectory today, but the damage was less severe. The index fell 135 points, down 16 percent from its mid-January high. 

 But it was clearly the Nasdaq pummeling that had Wall Street talking today. And the culprit behind it? A biotech bust. A slew of white-hot biotech and genomic stocks got trounced today: Celera Genomics down 40, Immunex down nearly 31 1/2, MedImmune (URL: http://www.medimmune.com/) down almost 20 1/2, Human Genome Sciences down more than 29, Protein Design Labs down nearly 62. Now keep in mind, all of those stocks were down  even more earlier in the session. The catalyst behind the sell-off? A transatlantic agreement to open research on the mapping of human genes, it`s a move that investors fear could place the industry`s profit motive in jeopardy. 

 We have two reports tonight, beginning with Steve Young. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): President Clinton and British Prime Minister Tony Blair said that when all 100,000 human genes are cataloged the raw data should be given to all the world`s scientists, but at the same time they said unique uses of the data should be patentable. 

 WILLIAM J. CLINTON, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We have a profound responsibility to insure that the life-saving benefits of any cutting-edge research are available to all human beings. 

 YOUNG (on camera): The genome study to decode the 3 billion letters that make up our genes is being conducted by both governments and companies using supercomputers. 

 (voice-over): One of the foremost human genome companies says it agrees with the president. 

 CRAIG VENTER, CELERA GENOMICS: Our motto has never been to keep it secret, so this is totally consistent with that and with Wall Street`s involvement with Celera, so this should be nothing but good news for Celera`s investors and the public in general. 

 YOUNG: But momentum investors were afraid high-flying biotech issues will stall if companies like Celera can`t use patents to lock up the commercial potential of their discoveries. 

 SUSHANT KUMAR, MEHTA PARTNERS: Where things get tricky are when Celera wants to take this data and annotates it, adds value to it using algorithms that help you understand what this raw data means, that`s where they want to charge money and make money. 

 RICHARD VAN DEN BROEK, BIOTECH ANALYST, CHASE H&O: A thought that perhaps all of a sudden these gene paths that people were paying certainly very high prices for access to, now all of a sudden the question, is there any value there, is brought into light by these comments and it certainly scared some folks. 

 YOUNG: Analysts say the sprint to the patent office resembles a land rush as biotech companies claim even fragments of a gene without knowing exactly what it does. They say future patents probably won`t be issued unless the company can describe a full gene and the way it can be harnessed to treat humans. 

 Steve Young, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is Peter Viles. 

 With a few words, President Clinton succeeded where Alan Greenspan has not, letting some of the air out of one of the hottest parts of the stock market. His comments on pooling of genetic research hammered biotechnology stocks, because some of those companies had hoped 

 to sell genetic data to drugmakers and researchers. 

 The Nasdaq Biotech Index, which had rocketed 81 percent this year, fell 12 1/2 percent. 

 ROBERT BURGOYNE, MONUMENT MEDICAL SCIENCES: Right now you have a lot of momentum investors that have made a lot of money in a very short period of time, but this is still not a very liquid market, meaning a little bit of money can move it dramatically and we believe that that`s what`s happened. 

 VILES: The hard hit included Celera Genomics, which lost money last year yet saw its stock rise 797 percent in four months, giving it a market value of $9.8 billion of which 21 percent disappeared today. Incyte Pharmaceuticals (URL: http://www.incyte.com) , another money loser, had built $5.6 billion of market value, 27 percent was wiped out. Another loser, Millennium Pharmaceuticals, worth $10.5 billion on Monday, 25 percent of that disappeared. 

 One analyst compared the sell-off to last spring`s meltdown in consumer Internet stocks such as Amazon (URL: http://www.amazon.com/) and AOL. 

 JOSEPH MCALINDEN, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: These tend to be round trips. These stocks tend to go up on a lot of hope. And people  are looking five, 10, 20 years down the road at earnings prospects and they get parabolic, and then they just get so steep they can`t keep going and they crash. 

 VILES: The two-day loss for the Nasdaq Composite now stands at 6.8 percent. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VILES: It certainly feels like momentum is shifting against the Nasdaq, but we have been this way twice this year without a 10 percent Nasdaq correction. Twice in January the Nasdaq lost more than 8 percent in dramatic downturns, twice it came roaring right back to record highs -- Willow. 

 BAY: We`ll just have to wait and see I suppose, Peter, if this one  is any different. Peter Viles, thanks. 

 One biotech stock that avoided the carnage today, PPL Therapeutics, shares in the Scotland-based drug company soared more than 50 percent in London trading today. That after PPL, which helped clone Dolly the sheep, did it again with the world`s first cloned pigs. Scientists view it as a huge breakthrough in developing animal to human transplants. Joining Dolly in the pantheon of cloned animals are five  piglets named Millie , Christa, Alexis, Carol, and believe it or not, Dot.com. 

 And this breaking news on today`s primaries in six Southern states. The polls are closed now in all but Texas, and CNN has confirmed that Vice President Al Gore has clinched the Democratic nomination for president. He now has 2,201 delegates, 2,170 are needed for the nomination. And at this hour Governor Bush has 841, 193 delegates shy of the 1,034 needed to win the Republican nomination. 

 Up next on MONEYLINE, the multi-billionaire behind the world`s second biggest software company. We will talk with Larry Ellison about Oracle`s standout profit report. That`s when MONEYLINE returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: In tonight`s MONEYLINE "Focus," the company behind some of the biggest B-2-B sites on the Internet: Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) . After the closing bell, the database software maker said third-quarter net income jumped 80 percent on strong sales, earnings came in at 17 cents a share, 4 cents better than estimates. Its stock up 5 3/4 in after-hours trading. Over the past year Oracle has exploded up more than 439 percent. During that time, Oracle`s market cap has soared to more than $219 billion. That is $23 billion more than IBM, a company that was founded half a century earlier. Joining us now with more from Redwood Shores, California, Larry Ellison, chairman and CEO of Oracle. Larry, welcome back. 

 LARRY ELLISON, CHMN. & CEO, ORACLE: Hi, Willow. 

 BAY: Great earnings report. Sales were up, but you achieved your cost- cutting objectives earlier than you`d anticipated. What allowed you to do that? 

 ELLISON: Well, nine months ago, we said we were going to start using our own Internet software, our own Internet e-business suite to basically move everything we do onto the Internet, do marketing on the Internet, do our selling on the Internet, provide service on the Internet, buy things through the Internet. And we thought we could improve margins about 10 points and save about a billion dollars. That`s what we committed to Wall Street. Well, in fact, we`ve improved margins already 11.8 percent, and we think we can reset the bar for the end of this year to not improve margins by 10 points, but rather by 20 points. 

 BAY: Are you surprised by that? 

 ELLISON: I`m surprised at how quickly we got there, the fact that nine months into a program to move Oracle completely to an Internet e-business, we`ve improved margins almost 12 points already, overshooting our $1 billion savings goal. 

 BAY: You are moving into Asia. You have announced an alliance with cable and wireless HKT to launch the first Web-based b-to-b marketplace there. 

 Is greater China ready for b-to-b on the Web? 

 ELLISON: I think the whole world is ready for b-to-b on the Web. It allows you to market much more efficiently, whether you`re doing marketing, or selling, or you`re doing procurement, you`re buying things or you`re shipping things, whatever you do, everything from expense reports to sales force automations, all done more efficiently on 

 the Web. 

 BAY: When will it be done there? When will you be up and running? 

 ELLISON: We`re able to put these business-to-business suites or business-to-business exchange sites up in 30 days. That`s the amazing thing about the Internet, it`s not waiting for a two-year payback; it`s a two-month payback. 

 BAY: So you`re going to be up and running in 30 days. What kinds of companies are you targeting? 

 ELLISON: Everything, from the big three automakers to retail companies. You name it, all of them can benefit from the Internet. 

 BAY: Do you need to move outside of U.S. markets, into Asia and into Europe, to deliver the kind of explosive growth that Oracle has seen? 

 ELLISON: Well, it`s called the World Wide Web. All businesses are going to go global. If you`re going to be -- you`re going to face competition from foreign companies, you`d better be prepared to compete in foreign markets. So it`s called the World Wide Web not the American Wide Web not the European Wide Web. Everything is going global, and the Internet is making that happen faster than anyone anticipated. 

 BAY: Larry, as you well know, old-economy stocks are really taking a beating in the market, yet in terms of your own, Oracle`s b-to-b push, you`re linking your future with some very prominent old-economy names -- Ford, Sears, Chevron. 

 Does the market have the picture wrong here? 

 ELLISON: Well, I don`t know. I don`t think so. If you take a look at what`s happened with previous generation technology stocks, you`ve seen Cisco Systems (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) pass Intel -- Cisco, the company most associated with hardware for the Internet, passed Intel, the company most associated with hardware for the previous generation of computing, personal computing. Cisco is now worth more than Intel. I think we`ve yet to pass the software company that`s most closely associated with personal computing -- that would be Microsoft. But I think it`s possible for Oracle to pass Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) . 

 BAY: It`s possible for Oracle to pass Microsoft, but what about those old-economy companies that you`re linking your future with? 

 ELLISON: Well, again, you could make cars more cheaply, you can sell them more openly, you can service them better, you can, you know, improve customer satisfaction, you can lower your cost of purchasing, you can lower your costs of marketing if you use the Internet. Every business, all of these old-line traditional businesses, from convenience store operators to automobile manufacturers, again, any business I can think of -- a logistics companies, media companies -- everybody has got to move to the Internet. It just makes it cheaper to do business. You sell more and spend less. 

 BAY: Larry Ellison, I`ll let that be the last word. Thanks for joining us. 

 ELLISON: Thank you, Willow. 

 BAY: Up next: no rest for the free-spending consumers of America. Not even the Fed can keep them away from the malls. That story when MONEYLINE continues. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: As the sell-off worsened on Wall Street, the rally intensified in the Chicago bond pits. The 30-year issue also got a boost today as the Treasury detailed phase two of its big buyback program. The long bond jumped 1 2/32. The 10-year note rose 17/32. That yield now down to 6.28 percent. Bonds erased early losses triggered by a stronger- than-expected reading on retail sales. The report confirmed what most economists already feared: Americans still have their wallets wide-open, despite some compelling reasons for them to slow down spending. 

 From Washington, Louise Schiavone reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 LOUISE SCHIAVONE, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Neither rising gasoline prices, nor volatile stocks, nor threats of higher interest rates seem to be slowing the consumer spending locomotive. According to the Commerce Department, retail sales rose 1.1 percent in February: $265.7 billion, better than double January`s revised gains of .4 percent. 

 DANA TELSEY, BEAR STEARNS: It`s the continuation of a very healthy economy, with strong consumer spending and low unemployment. 

 SCHIAVONE: Sales of new cars and light trucks accelerated 1.4 percent, apparel sales rose 1.1 percent, and grocery sales climbed 1.8 percent. 

 MAURY HARRIS, PAINEWEBBER: People bought a lot of groceries in December because they were afraid there would be some negative Y2K effects on grocery supplies if the computers went down in January. So you had a big increase in grocery sales in December, a big drop January, because you bought some of January in December, and then in February, you snapped back. 

 SCHIAVONE: Most retailers posted gains except building suppliers. Analysts say the Federal Reserve won`t ignore the fact that consumers are buying big-ticket items like cars and furniture, even after four interest rate hikes since June. They expect this will embolden the Fed to continue with incremental interest rate hikes when it meets next week. 

 HARVENDER KALIRAI, IDEA GLOBAL.COM: Interest rates, while they have backed up, are still quite low to have any restraining impact on the economy right now. 

 SCHIAVONE: With income tax refunds starting to flow to consumers, the outlook is for continued strong spending through the spring. But expectations are that record gains in gasoline prices, combined with higher interest rates may reign in the economy by the second half of the year. 

 Louise Schiavone, CNN Financial News, Washington. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: The Energy Department is scrambling to do something to combat those record-high prices at the pump. Energy Secretary Bill Richardson told CNN he expects prices to retreat once OPEC boosts output of crude oil. In the meantime, the Clinton administration is trying to get more gas on the market and help consumers cope with higher costs. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 BILL RICHARDSON, ENERGY SECRETARY: We`ve got loans to home heating oil owners and truckers, small business loan. Help is on way. We`re trying, we`re working night and day, and the president is also considering additional measures to take. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: Some Congressional Republicans are calling for a repeal of the 4.3 cents a gallon gas tax for the rest of the year. 

 Higher energy costs are worrying the nation`s manufacturers, according to a report released today. They expect the economy to slow down to a 2.5 percent growth rate or less this year. That`s because, they say, they don`t have the pricing power to pass along their soaring energy costs to consumers. Absorbing those costs will cut into profits. But today, Light Sweet Crude fell 33 cents, to $21.69 a barrel, on reports that OPEC may raise output enough to meet demand. 

 In tonight`s sector focus, chip stocks took a big hit. The sector that had been red hot this year gave back some of its recent gains. The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index dropped more than 6 percent, with losses ranging from PC chipmakers to the producers of high-flying telecom semiconductors. 

 Checking some of those stocks, Intel dropped 4 1/4. Motorola down nearly 4 3/4. Texas Instruments slumped 15 1/2. Rambus (URL: http://www.rambus.com/)  gave back more than 31 1/2. And PMC-Sierra (URL: http://www.pmc-sierra.com/) down 20 1/4. 

 Coming up, a standout in today`s tech tumble: Inktomi (URL: http://www.inktomi.com) . Investors embrace its wireless Web plans. The president and CEO of Inktomi up  next on MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: A rather busy day on the merger front: Three Japanese banks -- Sanwa , Tokai  and Asahi -- are joining forces, creating the world`s No. 3 financial institution with close to $1 trillion in assets. Nortel Networks said it`s buying Xros , an optical switching firm, for $3 1/4 billion in stock. The move will help Nortel Networks (URL: http://www.nortelnetworks.com/) develop its network exclusively from optical technology, thus greatly speeding transmission. And Alcoa, the world`s biggest aluminum producer, is acquiring Cordant Technologies, which makes rocket boosters for NASA`s space shuttle program. The price tag: more than $2 billion. 

 Checking those stocks: Alcoa lost nearly seven today. Cordant surged 25 1/2. Xros is not publicly traded, but Nortel gained more than two. 

 A blockbuster day for Inktomi investors: Despite today`s tech turbulence, the Internet software maker soared more than 9 1/2 percent after it unveiled plans to go wireless. Inktomi said it will invest up to $100 million and forge six new alliances in order to  make its products available for wireless networks. Today, Inktomi shares jumped more than 17 to a 52-week high, and over the past year its shares have skyrocketed 480 percent. 

 Joining us now, the president and CEO of Inktomi, David Peterschmidt. 

 David, welcome. 

 DAVID PETERSCHMIDT, PRESIDENT & CEO, INKTOMI: Thanks, Willow. 

 BAY: So does this mean, these six alliances, that you`ll be able to do in the wireless world what you do now in the wired one, that Inktomi will be able to provide the infrastructure and the services to access the Web with one of those... 

 PETERSCHMIDT: Yes, very much so. 

 BAY: ... things in your -- Palm Pilot? 

 PETERSCHMIDT: Yes, the wireless world is different, though. The two things we`ve got to do differently for wireless is that device is always mobile. And we need to know where that device is all the time so that if you`re asking us for -- show me the three restaurants closest to me, I know where it is. 

 BAY: And you actually forged an alliance with a company that provides location-based content like that. 

 PETERSCHMIDT: That`s right, Air Flash. 

 BAY: And so, that means that literally I can be in Cleveland and get a traffic report and restaurant reviews. 

 PETERSCHMIDT: Exactly. Yes, exactly. 

 What`s going to happen is not only can you be in Cleveland and get the restaurants, the three that are closest to you, but with Air Flash`s technology, if there`s a restaurant across the river, it`ll discard that because it says, the bridge is 6 miles away so I don`t  want to show that to you. 

 BAY: And how far away are we from actually being able to use... 

 PETERSCHMIDT: Late this summer. 

 BAY: Late summer. 

 PETERSCHMIDT: So we`re going to see this all come online in third quarter. 

 BAY: With these six alliance, do you have what you need, or will we see additional alliances? 

 PETERSCHMIDT: No, we have what we need now to deploy these services on a global basis, but the wireless is going to be just like the land-based Internet. I think we`re going to see tremendous new technology gains. 

 We`re going to have to continue to develop a lot of new technology. But the capabilities there now have a very functional wireless experience. 

 BAY: When you say develop new technology, that suggests to me that this is going to be an expensive venture. You`re 100 million in so far. Does this push off profitability? 

 PETERSCHMIDT: No. In fact, part of the strategy here is we invested in Air Flash and took an equity position. That allows that development to take place, but not on Inktomi`s P&L. So, that doesn`t change our profitability equation. 

 BAY: So, that means you`ll see revenues fall... 

 PETERSCHMIDT: We`ll see revenues -- yes, we`ll see revenues toward the end of the late third quarter, beginning of the fall quarter, quite frankly. 

 BAY: Profits? 

 PETERSCHMIDT: Well, Wall Street is already projecting us to be profitable long before that occurs. And we feel comfortable with that. 

 BAY: You are? 

 PETERSCHMIDT: Yes. 

 BAY: OK, David Peterschmidt, thank you very much. 

 PETERSCHMIDT: You bet. 

 BAY: Up next, a publishing first, plus "Ahead of the Curve": some of what you need to know tonight before the markets open tomorrow. You`re watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Technology stocks with a glimmer of hope heading into tomorrow`s trading session: shares of Oracle up nearly $6 in after-hours trading. Late today, the database software maker beat third-quarter earnings by four cents a share. 

 Expected to report profit results tomorrow, General Mills (URL: http://www.generalmills.com/) and Williams-Sonoma (URL: http://www.williams-sonoma.com/) , which issued a profit warning last week. 

 And on the economic front, the latest figures on the nation`s manufacturing sector. Those are due out at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. 

 Finally tonight, one of the best-selling writers of our time blazes a path in the medium of the future. Stephen King became the first big-time author to publish a story exclusively over the Web. His new ghost story, "Riding the Bullet," runs 66 pages long and was supposed to cost $2 1/2 to read until a couple of online bookstores started providing free access. 

 There were no specific numbers on first-day sales, though the publisher called the e-book a hit. And some Web sites posted messages saying they couldn`t keep up with demand. 

 That`s MONEYLINE for this Tuesday. I`m Willow Bay. Thanks for joining us. Good night from New York. "CROSSFIRE" is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user  of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may  be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or 

 interests in  the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw3e00072


 Business 
 MONEYLINE 

 Willow Bay, Stuart Varney, Charles Molineaux, Rhonda Schaffler, Casey Wian, Allan Dodds Frank, Bruce Francis, Wolf Blitzer, Greg Clarkin, Steve Young, Fred Katayama, Peter Viles, Louise Schiavone 
8,495 words
13 March 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  Tonight on MONEYLINE, the Nasdaq in a nose dive. High-tech stocks take a dramatic tumble -- simple profit taking, or a sign of peril ahead? 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  One force behind the sell-off: word that the world`s second biggest economy has slipped back into recession. The trouble with Japan Inc. 

 BAY: A mea culpa from Warren Buffett after a disastrous year for Berkshire Hathaway. Has value investing turned into a loser`s bet? 

 VARNEY: And a special report on recycling more than a million tons of nuclear-contaminated metal. Why the steel business doesn`t want it ending up in your home. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Willow Bay and Stuart Varney. 

 VARNEY: Good evening, everyone. 

 It was a manic Monday on Wall Street. 

 BAY: The sound of the opening bell sparked a wave of selling after a tumultuous session in overseas markets. The Nasdaq fared the worst. The opening index fell more than 169 points, tumbling below 5000. Fifteen minutes later the index sank even lower, down more than 209 points to 4839, its lowest level of the session. But bargain hunters came in and for a moment it appeared like the Nasdaq could break out of the red. At 1:00 p.m. it was down just 20 points, but it didn`t last. By 3:00 the index fell again, posting a triple-digit loss. The selling picked up and at the close the Nasdaq was off 141 points to 4907. 

 As for the Dow, the sell-off also began early. The blue-chip index down more than 193 points in the first half hour of trading, but an hour  later the Dow turned positive and closed up 18 points to 9,947. 

 With our market coverage at the Nasdaq, we go to Charles Molineaux -- Charles. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Well, Willow, we saw the Nasdaq`s fourth worst one-day point loss today, 121 points, and  this selling was broad. Almost two stocks went down for every one that went up. 

 Market watchers are divided over whether this was concern over Japan`s economy, but it certainly started with today`s sell-off in the Asia Pacific markets. Technology investors tried buying on the dips and the Nasdaq Composite went through several attempts at a rally before it fell in the last hour. 

 Yes, the battered biotechnology stocks led this market down and lost almost 7 1/2 percent. Advanced Tissue Sciences sagged and Chiron Corporation  (URL: http://www.chiron.com/) had a coronary on news its coronary drug bombed out in clinical testing. Telecoms got their wires crossed, Adaptive Broadband (URL: http://www.adaptivebroadband.com/) and Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) both faded on the day. 

 Chip stocks like KLA Tencor (URL: http://www.kla.com/) and Linear Technology  also fell more than 1 percent as a group. But the biggest of the group, big-cap Intel actually went up to a new all-time high after bullish analyst comments. So did Dell Computer after a series of analyst upgrades predicting a return to its renowned strong growth. Although, Apple was more typical, as computers fell 2 percent as a group. 

 Internet stocks took their lumps, too, down 2 percent. RealNetworks (URL: http://www.real.com/) withdrew. PSINet (URL: http://www.psi.net/) lost, too. But eBay (URL: http://www.ebay.com/) enjoyed a new round of investor enthusiasm over its business model and gained 8 1/2 percent. 

 How serious was what happened today? Well, strategists say this market will try to rally out of the slump and back up over 5000 probably several times this week. The question will be if it can hold  there between now and Friday. If not, this could be something much more substantial than a one-day dip. Once again, we`re waiting to see if those bargain hunters come in and save the day. 

 Reporting live from the Nasdaq market site, Charles Molineaux, CNN. 

 VARNEY: Well, turbulent tech stocks clearly hurt the Nasdaq, but some of the tech leaders on the Dow industrials pushed that index into the plus column today. 

 Rhonda Schaffler has now -- more now on today`s winners and losers. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 RHONDA SCHAFFLER, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Blue chips managed to recover from a nasty early fall, but today`s advance was only modest and akin to a handful of stocks. Intel hit an all-time high on an analyst upgrade. Bottom fishers picked up Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) shares. IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) advanced. And J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) soared on an upbeat forecast. But the house of Morgan was more the exception than the rule. 

 Some banks did move slightly higher today, but most brokerages did not fare as well. In fact, there were several weak sectors today, drug stocks in particular trounced again. But the bulls say the day`s advance for the Dow, timid as it was, could be a positive sign of what`s to come. 

 CHRISTINE CALLIES, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: It`s clear this is still a very favorable time of the year for stock rebounds. Investors are going to keep contributing funds to their 401(k)s and their IRAs up until April 15th, and this does tend to allow the stock market a fairly large margin of error. 

 SCHAFFLER: But even as investors continue pumping money into the market, they`re still selective. The much touted rotation out of the old economy stocks or traditional Dow issues into the new economy, tech related shares was evident at the NYSE: Merck (URL: http://www.merck.com/) , GE (URL: http://www.ge.com) , and ExxonMobil (URL: http://www.exxon.mobil.com/) all lost ground, while Micron (URL: http://www.micron.com/) soared more than 11 and AOL picked up 2. 

 CLARK YINGST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: I think that this divergence, which is of some concern to us, is likely to be corrected at some point in the not too distant future. I was always taught that divergences by definition ultimately get corrected. The bigger questions 

 to which no one has an answer and about which we can only speculate are exactly when under what conditions. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 SCHAFFLER: One possible factor, a raft of economic reports coming  out this week that could give investors clues about the Federal Reserve`s next move on interest rates. A report on retail sales is due tomorrow and later in the week readings on both producer and consumer prices -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Rhonda Schaffler at the big board. 

 Now, the catalyst behind today`s meltdown, a huge sell-off in Tokyo following some rather grim news about the world`s second biggest economy. The Nikkei stock average plunged nearly 3 percent, though the index is still up nearly 24 percent over the past year. Today`s sharp sell-off came after new economic distress signals. Japan`s GDP last quarter fell at an annualized rate of 5 1/2 percent, far more than expected. It is the second straight decline and that`s what many consider to be a recession. 

 BAY: And the sell-off wasn`t confined to just Tokyo and Wall Street. Stocks tumbled across the globe, with the benchmark indexes in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Germany, and Brazil all falling 3 1/2 percent or more. 

 Joining us now with more, Bob Hormats, he is the vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International. Bob, welcome back. 

 ROBERT HORMATS, VICE CHMN., GOLDMAN SACHS INTERNATIONAL: Good to be with you. 

 BAY: What happened in Japan? Is the worst over or do we continue to see falling GDP? 

 HORMATS: Well, the economy is in trouble, but I think we`re going to see better times ahead largely because there is an old economy and the new economy. The new economy is still very weak. The new economy is beginning to pick up largely through information technology and computer-related investment. 

 BAY: Before we talk about the new economy, when do you think we`ll see a significant improvement? 

 HORMATS: I think the first quarter numbers and second quarter numbers will be better than the numbers we have seen, not dramatically better, but better. 

 BAY: So you describe the new economy as weak, so is it likely, then, at some point that new economy will gain in strength enough to help lead Japan out of this recession? 

 HORMATS: I think the new economy will actually lead Japan out of the recession for two reasons: one, because already there is a lot of investment in telecommunications, in the Internet, cell systems, a whole range of very positive things, and as old companies begin to utilize the new technology they themselves will become more productive. 

 BAY: That may happen of course in the future, but what`s really kept Japan from rebounding in any significant way? 

 HORMATS: Well, the old economy is still the largest portion of the overall economy, and it is not an economy which has been deregulated like the American economy. They also have a lot of overhang of real estate as a result of the bubble. They have a lot of excess industrial capacity. Until they work those off or work them down and improve the banking system, which is overloaded with a lot of this bad debt, they`re going to have a hard time strengthening their economy. 

 BAY: Banking and Japan`s corporation primarily there. What about the rest of Asia, is the picture quite different? 

 HORMATS: The picture in the rest of Asia is a little bit better. They have benefited from selling to the United States. A lot of restructuring is going on, the banking systems have been improved, still a lot of debt overhang, still a lot of excess capacity, but they`re looking better. All of Asia has very high savings rate and they`re beginning to use that to help stimulate growth. 

 BAY: How closely at this point is Japan`s economy tied to the U.S.? 

 HORMATS: It`s really not that close. I mean, we have been doing very well over the last 10 years with a relatively weak Japanese economy. It should not bring our economy down. It would be better if they were to grow more rapidly, but a weak Japan... 

 BAY: But it should not bring our economy down? 

 HORMATS: A weak Japan should not be bad for the United States, not good, but certainly not a bad problem. 

 BAY: Bob Hormats, as always, thanks for joining us. 

 HORMATS: Good to be with you, thanks. 

 VARNEY: Next on MONEYLINE, a very different kind of scoop rocks  the newspaper business. 

 BAY: We`ll look at how readers and investors are responding with Tribune buying the company behind the "L.A. Times." 

 VARNEY: And then there`s Aetna (URL: http://www.aetna.com/) , out to divide itself to prevent being conquered, why Wall Street was less than impressed with a drastic takeover defense. 

 Those stories are coming up next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: The Tribune Company today expanded its newspaper empire from Chicago to Los Angeles and beyond, agreeing to buy Times Mirror, publisher of the "L.A. Times," "Baltimore Sun" and "Newsday." It`s paying about $6 1/2 billion. The deal will create the country`s third-largest newspaper company and a force in broadcasting as well. 

 Times Mirror stock surged more than 37 1/2 points, but Tribune slumped about 6 1/2. Casey Wian has the story from Los Angeles. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CASEY WIAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The "Los Angeles Times" has been owned by the Otis and Chandler families for more than a century. Now the paper`s parent company, Times Mirror, has agreed to be acquired by the Tribune (URL: http://www.tribune.com/)  company of Chicago in a deal that will put 11 newspapers, 17 magazines, 22 TV stations and the Chicago Cubs under one corporate roof. 

 LELAND WESTERFIELD, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: The new Tribune company is a multitiered diversified media company with real strength in local media. By bringing together, Times Mirror and Tribune you create cross-ownership, that is TV and newspapers, in three of the biggest cities in the country -- Los Angeles, Chicago and New York -- and that`s a terrific value. 

 WIAN: Together the companies will have 3.6 million newspaper readers and reach 75 percent of the nation`s TV households. Tribune agreed to pay $95 a share for Times Mirror, about double its Friday close. Despite assurances that the combination will result in cost savings and produce higher earnings in the first year, investors are skeptical. Tribune shares lost nearly 20 percent on news of the deal. 

 Tribune Chairman John Madigan says he did not overpay. 

 JOHN MADIGAN, CEO, TRIBUNE CO.: Right now, the market`s not real happy with major transactions. It`s very nervous today, as you know, and I think eventually they`ll see through this and realize that we paid a reasonable price to get these assets. 

 WIAN: The Chandler family, which owns most of Times Mirror`s stock, will also get four seats on Tribune`s board. Left out is controversial Times Mirror Chairman Mark Willes, who has angered "L.A. Times" staffers by blurring the lines between advertising and news gathering. 

 (on camera): The deal would also continue the exodus of major corporations from Los Angeles. If BP Amoco`s purchase of Arco and the Times Mirror-Tribune deal both go through, Los Angeles would be left without a single Fortune 500 corporate headquarters. 

 Casey Wian, CNN Financial News, Los Angeles. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Checking some other movers: StarMedia (URL: http://www.starmedia.com/) sank 17 1/4. Salomon Smith Barney and Merrill Lynch (URL: http://www.ml.com/) both downgraded  the Latin American Web portal. The CEO of StarMedia called today`s sell-off a huge overreaction to the downgrades. 

 Excite @Home (URL: http://www.home.net/) gained more than 1 1/4. It launched a new broadband portal for high-speed Internet access, and Bank of America Securities called the company`s stock compelling at these levels. 

 Infineon  Technologies jumped more than 34 on its first day of trading. The chip maker is a unit of the German electronics giant Siemens (URL: http://www.siemens.de/) . 

 And Superconductor Technologies  soared nearly 21 on a supply agreement with ALLTEL (URL: http://www.alltel.com/) Communications. Superconductor makes products for wireless communications and Internet access. 

 VARNEY: Aetna had very little luck convincing investors that it could boost its sagging stock by staving off a buyout offer. One day  after the country`s biggest health care and insurance giant said it would remain independent by dividing itself in two, Aetna stock dropped 5 1/4. 

 More on that from Allan Dodds Frank. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ALLAN DODDS FRANK, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Aetna`s turndown of a tentative takeover offer in favor of its own plan to split the company turned off Wall Street. Aetna`s new chairman, Wall Street veteran William Donaldson, rejected out of hand a tentative $70 a share offer from WellPoint Health Systems and ING America Financial Services. 

 DAVID SHOVE, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: I`m not sure that if it had been a solid offer, that they would have rejected it or that they wouldn`t have at least moved ahead to do a little more investigation. But this was simply a letter to go fishing, and I think that Bill Donaldson didn`t want to be the fish. 

 FRANK: Aetna`s break-up plan would create separate companies in managed health care and in financial services. The company`s managed care business has 21 million customers and accounts for more than $20 billion in revenue but less than $1/2 billion in operating income. But Aetna`s financial services unit, which sells mutual funds and annuities, accounted for only $1.6 billion in revenue and more than $200 million, or nearly 30 percent, of operating income. 

 Most of the international business, which brought in revenues of $2.8 billion with a mix of health care, financial services and insurance, will be put up for sale. 

 Some analysts say a break-up may not help. 

 WILLIAM MCKEEVER, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, PAINEWEBBER: I think they`ve made too many acquisitions over the last few years. They, frankly, have paid too much. They`ve executed poorly. They`ve made some efforts in Medicare that haven`t worked. You can see it`s a whole litany of things that they haven`t done well. 

 FRANK (on camera): WellPoint (URL: http://www.wellpoint.com/) and ING could still make a firmer offer, but Aetna, despite investor discontent, seems to want to make a go of it alone, at least for now. 

 Allan Dodds Frank, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Coming up on MONEYLINE, we`ll take you live to a gathering of the Internet elite. 

 VARNEY: Where the talk is about stock bubbles and the search for the new new thing. That`s next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Checking some of the stocks that hit 52-week lows today: Cigna (URL: http://www.cigna.com/) , Coca-Cola (URL: http://www.cocacola.com/) , eToys (URL: http://www.etoys.com/) , Royal Caribbean (URL: http://www.royalcaribbean.com/) Cruises and VISX  (URL: http://www.visx.com/) . 

 VARNEY: The deal is off for CDnow (URL: http://www.cdnow.com/) and Columbia House , the mail- order music business owned by Sony (URL: http://www.world.sony.com/) and Time Warner (URL: http://www.timewarner.com/) , the parent of CNN. Columbia House last year agreed to buy CDNow as an online music retailer. But today, they announced the deal was dead, saying it no longer made financial sense. 

 CDNow has hired Allen & Company and is now exploring other strategic possibilities. CDNow stock dropped today more than a point and a quarter. 

 BAY: It`s been called the Sundance Film Festival of the Internet: PC Forum, now run by Esther Dyson, is a gathering of some of the brightest lights of the emerging Internet economy. From venture capitalists to start-up CEOs, the hot topics at this year`s forum in Scottsdale, Arizona are dot.com market valuations, and the quest for the new new thing. 

 For tonight`s "Tech Watch," we`re joined by MONEYLINE`s Bruce Francis. 

 Bruce, what was there much talk today about the sell-off on the Nasdaq? BRUCE FRANCIS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): There was some concern earlier. First thing, really, just as the market was down 200 points. You have to remember, if there`s a group of believers anywhere, Willow, this is it. These are the venture capitalists and entrepreneurs who got a lot of this round going. Well Esther Dyson asked the crowd, how many people think these stocks, specifically the B2B companies, are overvalued? Not a single hand stayed by their side. All the hands in the room went up. So certainly thee is, even within this industry, a concern about the valuations that we certainly see out there. 

 There`s also the never-ending quest for the new new thing. And if there`s any new new thing that`s getting all the buzz this year, it`s Terabeam. And I`m joined right now by Terabeam`s CEO Dan Hesse. 

 Dan, thank you very much for being with us. 

 DANIEL HESSE, CO, TERABEAM: My pleasure, Bruce. 

 FRANCIS: Give our audience a sense of what you`re doing. We don`t want to get into the arcania of networking, but this is a breakthrough. 

 HESSE: Absolutely. Think of it as fiberless optics, everything you can do on a fiber-optic cable but doing it through the air, just shooting light through the window so you can get gigabit speeds to the desktops. 

 FRANCIS: So we`re talking about hundreds of times faster than current businesses get but without the wires in the last mile? 

 HESSE: That`s absolutely right. You can provision it very, very quickly. And from an economic perspective, because it`s point to multipoint, we can serve many users. You don`t have to buy an expensive spectrum, expensive roof rights, difficult rights of way. It`s truly a breakthrough in the last mile. 

 FRANCIS: Now this is just the kind of business that the big networking companies like Nortel Networks (URL: http://www.nortelnetworks.com/) , Lucent (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) , certainly Cisco Systems (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) , are very interested in snapping up these days. Are you going to stay independent? 

 HESSE: That`s our plan. Greg Amadon, the founder, and I have very big ambitions for this company. So I don`t think anybody can afford us. 

 FRANCIS: Do your big ambitions include an IPO? 

 HESSE: Probably sometime in the future. It`s too early to say when that might be. 

 FRANCIS: Who might be threatened by this? It seems you can`t offer such a big shift, a big disruptive shift, without some companies being at risk here. 

 HESSE: The CLECs, competitive local exchange carriers as well as the regional Bell carriers will clearly see us as competitors. 

 FRANCIS: You left a huge amount of money on the table. You were the head of AT&T`s (URL: http://www.att.com/) wireless unit. Any -- how did you get to making that decision where you could leave literally millions on the table? 

 HESSE: Well, you`ve seen here at the conference, when anybody walks into the Terabeam showroom and they see it, and they see it working, they`re believers. That`s what it took for me. They put a bag over my head, stuck me in the roof of a car, drove me to this super-secret place -- because actually the company`s been in stealth mode for two and a half years in Seattle. 

 When I saw it working -- because I`ve been in the business 23 years. I didn`t think it was possible. I`ve been on the equipment side, in the service side, the Internet side, the wireless side, I`ve been everywhere. And what they`ve done is something that`s absolutely revolutionary. And it was an opportunity to be part of it. 

 FRANCIS: Dan, we`re going to leave it there. Thank you very much for joining us. 

 HESSE: Thank you, Bruce. 

 FRANCIS: Dan Hesse, the new CEO of Terabeam. 

 Stuart, Willow, back to you. 

 BAY: Thanks, Bruce. 

 VARNEY: Still ahead on MONEYLINE, predictions of another summer of drought. 

 BAY: That warning from Washington and other stories just ahead in our "News Digest." 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: It was a volatile session on Wall Street, but despite that we have a few stocks hitting new 52-week highs, and they include About.com. We also have Dell Computer hitting a new high and Intel, along with Rambus (URL: http://www.rambus.com/) , yet again, and Seagate Technology. 

 Time now for our look at the day`s top stories outside the world of business. And for that, Wolf Blitzer with the "MONEYLINE News Digest" -- Wolf? 

 WOLF BLITZER, CNNfn ANCHOR: Thanks, Stuart. 

 The Clinton White House may have felt as if it were under siege today, responding angrily to an attack by the National Rifle Association and facing another possible fight with the independent counsel. 

 The president denounced as smear tactics NRA charges that he accepts a certain level of violence to promote his political aims. And CNN has learned independent counsel bob ray is actively exploring whether to seek an indictment against Mr. Clinton after he leaves the White House in January. That as the investigation into the Monica Lewinsky and Paula Jones cases continues. 

 Campaign news now: On the eve of primaries in six Southern states, Vice President Al Gore accused George W. Bush of lacking a health care agenda because he`s loyal to campaign donors who just want a tax cut. Bush countered that it`s Gore who`s compromised himself for campaign money. The Texas governor predicts a tough campaign ahead. 

 Also today, Washington is warning that half of the U.S. states will probably suffer drought this summer, with the Midwest hit especially hard. Government forecasters say that could mean higher food prices, less water for recreation and more fires. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 JOHN KELLY, DIR., NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE: The outlook is bleak. Large portions of this country are going to experience continued shortages of rain. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BLITZER: And the NFL`s Dan Marino retired today after 17 years as quarterback for the Miami Dolphins. Marino completed a record number of passes in his career but never won the Super Bowl. 

 We`ll have much more on all of these stories tonight on "THE WORLD TODAY" at 8:00 p.m. Eastern, 5:00 Pacific. 

 Now back to Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, thanks very much, Wolf. 

 BAY: Ahead on MONEYLINE, a deal that spans from Detroit, Michigan to Turin, Italy. 

 VARNEY: GM (URL: http://www.gm.com/) teams up with Fiat, out to expand its market mileage around the globe: what it means for the world`s biggest car market. 

 BAY: And a controversy reaching critical mass: what to do with more than a million tons of nuclear contaminated metal. 

 Stay with us. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 ANNOUNCER: THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR continues. Here again, Stuart Varney and Willow Bay. 

 BAY: In tonight`s headlines, a white-knuckle ride for the technology faithful, as the Nasdaq slides nearly three percent. 

 The pressure on techs coming from an unlikely source: Japan. Its economy shrinks for the second straight quarter. 

 And a MONEYLINE special report on a recycling program that could open a can of worms for the steel industry. 

 VARNEY: But first, more on our top story: Stocks swoon from Tokyo to Seoul to Frankfurt, and the reaction on Wall Street is quick and painful. The first global sell-off of 2000 left the Dow unscathed, but it did cut deeply into the Nasdaq. That index suffered its fourth-biggest point loss ever, after tech stocks were slammed across the globe. 

 The Nasdaq tumbled 141 points -- that`s nearly 3 percent. It had been down as many as 209 points, retreating from the record that it reached on Friday. Two big-cap stocks weighed on the Nasdaq: Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) and Sun Microsystems (URL: http://www.sun.com/) . But some, in fact, bucked the trend, like Dell and Intel, which were both upgraded today. And then there`s eBay, which surged 16 1/2. 

 The Dow industrials, they tumbled nearly 200 points at the opening bell. They staged, though, an impressive rebound. The blue chips ended the day up 18, at 9947. 

 Now it wasn`t a profit warning or even Alan Greenspan that caused this morning`s market mayhem -- oh, no. It was a sell-off that echoed across Asia on troubling news about the world`s second-largest economy. Japan`s gross domestic product shrank at an annualized rate of 5.5 percent last quarter, pitching the economy back into recession. 

 And as Greg Clarkin reports, the one sector that seems to ignore economic conditions was indeed hit hard all across the globe. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Technology stocks tumbled worldwide after Japan reported its economy shrank late last year for the second quarter in a row. Technically, that`s a recession. Nervous investors bailed out of tech stocks, fearing even a hint of weakness in Asia. 

 DAWN SIMON, MERRILL LYNCH GLOBAL TECH FYND: The revisions in the gross domestic product in that nation, in that area, has caused some investors a little bit of concern about whether a global recovery economically is sustainable. 

 CLARKIN: That little bit of worry translated into a lot of selling. Stocks in Japan fell almost 3 percent. Hong Kong shares lost more than 4 percent, and stocks in Taiwan plunged 6 1/2 percent. The selling continued in Europe, where stocks in the U.K. lost more than 1 1/2 percent, and 3 1/2 percent in Germany. 

 Sony typified the widespread selling. A slide that started last week turned into a 7 percent tumble in Tokyo and the U.S., and analysts say investors are jittery, looking for the first sign of trouble to sell their high-flying high-tech stocks. 

 ART RUSSELL, EDWARD JONES: It`s hard to predict the next catalyst that`s going to create, you know, the negative sentiment. But, you know, at some point there`s going to be some type of shock to the system, and a little bit of bad news is going to send people scurrying  out of these stocks. And there`s the potential that it gets ugly real quick. 

 CLARKIN: And it was ugly early on for the Nasdaq. Telecoms, techs and Internets were battered. The Nasdaq was down more than 4 percent  before regaining some ground. Analysts say many so-called "new economy stocks" are priced for unattainable perfection, but investors are still flocking to them. 

 MARK KELLER, A.G. EDWARDS: This is clearly the most vibrant, fastest- growing portion of our economy. It`s just simply a matter of how much is an appropriate amount to pay for that growth? 

 CLARKIN (on camera): The news out of Japan unnerved investors worldwide, and analysts say now more than ever analysts need to be acutely aware of how much exposure their holdings have to events around the globe. 

 Greg Clarkin, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Adding to the Nasdaq`s volatility: a record-breaking merger in an industry that didn`t even exist a few years ago. Business to business software maker I2 Technologies is buying Aspect Development and Supplybase for $9.3 billion. That is the biggest software merger in history. I2 is offering a 35 percent premium for Aspect. That drove the stock up nearly 12. I2 shares slumped more than 16 3/4, though the stock has been on an incredible run. 

 Steve Young has more. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A business-to- business gorilla has been forged out of three companies many investors scarcely knew until recently. I2 says it`s acquiring Aspect Development and Supplybase in a stock deal it values at $9 1/3 billion, the biggest software deal in history. The companies help suppliers and their customers do business more efficiently over the Internet. 

 SANJIV SIDHU, CEO, I2 TECHNOLOGIES: Business-to-business solutions can transform the world. It`s what we call the next industrial revolution. 

 YOUNG: I2 and Aspect`s common clients include Compaq Computer (URL: http://www.compaq.com/) , Motorola (URL: http://www.mot.com/) , Ford (URL: http://www.ford.com/) and Sun . 

 ANDREW ROSKILL, WARBURG DILLON READ: i2 Technologies`  <Company;  i2 Technologies Incorporated;  Ticker:  ITWO;  URL: http://www.i2.com/> strength is in the back-end applications. That is, providing decision support, supply chain management, order fulfillment and logistics functionality. Aspect Development, on the other hand, provides a great product for direct product procurement. So the two products are extremely complimentary to one another, and they`re already well on their way to being integrated. 

 YOUNG: Analysts say the bulked up I2 is now a one-stop shop hard  to match in the industry. But Commerce One (URL: http://www.commerceone.com/) , Ariba (URL: http://www.ariba.com/) and Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) aren`t far behind. Last week, IBM formed a three-way alliance with I2 and Ariba. Big Blue will sell their software and also use it to streamline its own manufacturing. 

 Some analysts caution that while business-to-business e-commerce stocks are now in vogue, Wall Street sentiment could swing back to business-to-consumer issues, which were hot last year. 

 ANTHONY NOTO, GOLDMAN SACHS: I think we`ll see the same thing this year, where B2B is very hot right now, and by late summer, early fall people are going to swing back to the forgotten B2C sector to the leaders. 

 YOUNG: But business-to-business bulls disagree. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 YOUNG: They say business-to-consumer e-commerce gets just razor- thin profit margins, while the business-to-business market is bigger, less cyclical, and the profit potential is huge -- Willow. 

 BAY: Steven, we`ll find that out when those profits start to come in. Steve Young reporting -- thank you. 

 VARNEY: All right, let`s turn now to another deal, one that could give General Motors an even bigger share of the global car market. GM and Italy`s Fiat are buying stakes in one another. It`s a bid to cut costs and expand. Fiat shares jumped about a point and a quarter on that news. No change for General Motors, though. There had been speculation that DaimlerChrysler (URL: http://www.daimlerchrysler.com) would buy Fiat, but now  if Fiat sells to anyone it will have to be GM. 

 Fred Katayama has more on that. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The Italian automaker known for its economic sports cars and the Ferrari`s first cousin is tying up with the maker of the rugged Suburban. General Motors is swapping 5 percent of its stock worth $2.4 billion for a 20 percent stake of Fiat`s auto business. Analysts say GM had to pay a big premium for the weak automaker because there are a few independents left. 

 High price aside, GM says this deal will help it slash costs in Europe and Latin America. 

 JOHN SMITH, CEO, GENERAL MOTORS: We see significant opportunities to reduce costs, and we believe that that`s absolutely necessary in order to compete in this global arena. 

 KATAYAMA: The companies will set up two joint ventures focusing on those two regions. They`ll combine their engine and transmission plants that employ 40,000 people and buy parts together. They expect that`ll produce annual savings of $1.2 billion by the third year. 

 EFRAIM LEVY, STANDARD & POOR`S: Today`s transaction with General Motors and Fiat is a good deal. There are several benefits that they get from having a joint venture compared to having an outright merger. They get to have immediate savings and purchasing by their volume. 

 KATAYAMA (on camera): Fiat, the world`s seventh-largest carmaker, needed GM`s investment to stay independent. But GM has first dibs to buy the remaining 80 percent of its Italian partner should Fiat decide to sell. 

 (voice-over): For now, suddenly cost-conscience Fiat isn`t about to sell GM on the idea of joining them on the racing circuit. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If I can give you a suggestion, stay out of the formula one. It`s an expensive toy. 

 Fred Katayama, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: A high-profile departure, that could hurt a major profit machine at Merrill Lynch: Jack Levy, who helped build Merrill`s merger business, is leaving after 22 years at the investment bank. Merrill says Levy has resigned to pursue other career opportunities. Levy is the second powerful banker to leave Merrill this year. Merrill`s head of technology investment banking, Mark Shafir, resigned last month. 

 VARNEY: The contentious search for a new leader for the International Monetary Fund may have come to an end. The White House this afternoon said it would support -- it would support the German candidate Horst Koehler. This capped a four-month struggle to fill the post, during which time the Clinton administration had rejected another German official. The job, by the way, traditionally does go to a European. 

 BAY: Next on MONEYLINE, if it`s not working for Warren Buffett, what hope is there for his investment philosophy? 

 VARNEY: A special look at the future of value investing. That story`s coming up next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: In tonight`s "MONEYLINE Focus": hard times for the world`s greatest investor. Warren Buffett this weekend released his annual letter to shareholders, concluding that 1999 was the worst performance of his Berkshire Hathaway tenure. Buffett is just the best-known victim of a broader market trend: the all-out rejection of so-called "value investing," the search for solid companies with bargain basement stocks. 

 Peter Viles reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 WARREN BUFFETT, BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY: The Internet`s a passing fad. 

 (LAUGHTER) 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Give Warren Buffett credit: He hasn`t lost his sense of humor. But in the past year, the most famous value investor in America has lost $50 billion: on paper at least. Berkshire Hathaway (URL: http://www.berkshirehathaway.com/) shares are down 44 percent. 

 BUFFETT: To tell the truth, value investing hasn`t been working very well for me lately. 

 (LAUGHTER) 

 VILES: At least Buffett has company. Hedge fund manager Julian Robertson has also taken a beating. His Tiger Funds are off 13 percent so far this year. 

 Big value funds -- such as Putnam`s Growth and Income, Fidelity`s Equity Income, and Windsor Vanguard -- have all lost more than 11 percent this year. By contrast, the average performance for big tech funds is a gain of 38 percent, which is why investors are pulling money out of value funds and piling into technology. 

 SCOTT BLEIER, PRIME CHARTER LTD.: The real world companies get the double-whammy of no new money flows and money actually coming out to chase the performers. 

 VILES: On Wall Street, the debate is whether value investing is poised for a comeback or at risk of going the way of the rotary dial telephone and the milkman. 

 TONY DWYER, KIRLIN HOLDINGS: Typically, when people talk about the end of value investing as we know it, it`s a good signal that we`re near a bottom, and I think in the old economy stocks we are. 

 VILES: That sounds logical, but not everyone agrees. Jeff Applegate of Lehman Brothers (URL: http://www.lehman.com/) argues that cheap old- economy stocks may not be good buys at current levels. His logic is that higher rates and an economic slowdown threaten their profits, and the Internet is creating a separate deflationary tornado that squeezes pricing power and profits. 

 In years past, investors would be hanging on every word Buffett had to say in this debate. This year his credibility, however, has been hurt by his continued reluctance to invest in technology and by numbers like these: Washington Post (URL: http://www.washpostco.com/) , down 12 percent; Wells Fargo (URL: http://www.wellsfargo.com/) , 18 percent; and Coke, Freddie Mac (URL: http://www.freddiemac.com/) and Gillette (URL: http://www.gillette.com/) , all off 30 percent or more. That`s a  list of some of Berkshire`s biggest holdings. 

 One company absent from the list:  Walt Disney (URL: http://www://www.disney.com/) . Sometime last year Buffett sold at least half of Berkshire Hathaway`s 51 million Disney shares. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VILES: So what is Buffett saying about his battered portfolio? This weekend he wrote to his shareholders: He still likes the companies he`s invested in, but he says the stocks in those companies have not become cheap enough to tempt him to buy more --Willow. 

 BAY: So no change in strategy? 

 VILES: None whatsoever. 

 BAY: Thank you, Peter. 

 VARNEY: All right. When we come back, we`re going to continue this tech versus value debate. We`ll talk with Douglas Cliggott. 

 BAY: That`s next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Here`s the question of the day: Did today`s technology sell-off create a buying opportunity or a wake-up call? My next guest says now is not the time to be chasing tech. Instead, he sees opportunities in energy and consumer stocks. 

 Joining us now is Douglas Cliggott. He is U.S. equity strategist at J.P. Morgan. 

 Douglas, welcome back. 

 DOUGLAS CLIGGOTT, J.P. MORGAN: Thanks for being here. 

 VARNEY: Let`s clear this up: You would not at this point put any fresh money into the technology sector, correct? 

 CLIGGOTT: That`s correct. We have no problem with the fundamentals. There`s very strong revenue growth. That`s very strong earnings growth. But when we look and see that over the past 12 months the Nasdaq has increased by more than 100 percent, over the past three months it`s increased by over 50 percent, it`s very difficult to make a judgment call that the risk-return profile is one that you want to embrace. 

 VARNEY: On this program, on Friday night, Professor Jeremy Siegel at the 

 Wharton School of Business suggested there was a very sharp and sudden correction coming for tech stocks. Do you agree with that? Would you go as far as that? 

 CLIGGOTT: I think the risk of a correction is high and the reason for thinking that is, in our view, we`ve broken away from those fundamentals now. It`s all about money flows and momentum. 

 Often when stocks break, they fall, as we saw with Procter & Gamble, but then underlying earnings gives you a floor where a lot of technology stocks are trading right now. Should the momentum break, they could easily fall 50, 60, 70 percent before you get any kind of valuation floor. 

 VARNEY: Those are frightening words indeed, but your position would be start looking for real value in those oldline companies, those consumer stocks, for example -- Procter & Gamble, you mentioned that -- you`d be buying them at this price. 

 CLIGGOTT: We would, and we wouldn`t say avoid tech, but I think so many portfolios are more than half technology now... 

 VARNEY: Yes. 

 CLIGGOTT: ... we would say 25 to 30 percent in tech. Buy energy. That`s where the earnings momentum is. And as a lot of these big global-branded consumer goods companies, their share of prices break down, we think that`s where the interesting buying opportunities are. 

 VARNEY: And you think that is the trend in the marketplace in the immediate future: some money coming out of those high-flying techs  and going in back into the -- I was going to say lower grade; I don`t mean that -- but the beaten-down, ordinary, everyday, old-economy stocks. 

 CLIGGOTT: That`s what higher interest rates usually do. 

 VARNEY: They`ll do it this time: We shall see, however. 

 Douglas Cliggott, J.P. Morgan, thanks very much for joining us. 

 CLIGGOTT: Thank you, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: OK. 

 BAY: A bit of a reality check for one sector today. After weeks of sizeable gains, biotech stocks came back down to Earth, along with other sectors, the group led lower by shares of Chiron, which lost more than 23 percent. Today, the biotech firm reported disappointing results in a human test of its treatment for coronary artery disease. CS First Boston also downgraded the stock, based on its recent price gains. 

 Shares of Chiron ended the day off more than 13. Other biotech firms also lower: Immunex  (URL: http://www.immunex.com/) sank 27 1/4, MedImmune (URL: http://www.medimmune.com/) down nearly 21 1/2, Biogen (URL: http://www.biogen.com/) lost almost four, and King Pharmaceuticals (URL: http://www.kingpharm.com/) off 8 1/2. 

 VARNEY: Ouch. 

 When MONEYLINE returns, a plan to decontaminate thousand of tons of heavy metal draws the ire of the industry that helped make it. 

 BAY: A MONEYLINE special report, next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: The Department of Energy is in the process of shutting down the plants that helped build America`s nuclear arsenal and win the Cold War, 113 sites, most of them nuclear weapons-related. But a decade after the Berlin Wall came down, America faces lingering fallout from its 45-year standoff with Russia: what to do with hundreds of thousands of tons of contaminated metal. 

 The federal government has a plan to recycle it, but as Louise Schiavone explains in this special report, there is one industry that says radioactive steel will ruin its reputation and its profits. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 LOUISE SCHIAVONE, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): LTV Steel in Cleveland, Ohio is a typical steel-producing operation where scrap is mixed with iron ore and the final product emerges in consumer goods from soup cans and cars to construction materials. About two-thirds of all steel made in the United States is derived from  recycled materials. 

 TERENCE CIVIC, LTV STEEL: Steel and metal products are highly recyclable. 

 SCHIAVONE: But this plant is typical in another way, it`s constantly on the lookout for radioactively contaminated metals. 

 CIVIC: As this material continues to be released, we expect that the amount of radiation will continue to build up, and as we continue to recycle, the levels will increase. 

 SCHIAVONE: Put simply, steel mills don`t want materials exposed at any stage to radioactivity, because continued exposure even at low levels can increase the risks of cancer or genetic defects to workers and the general public. The problem is radioactive scrap metal can and has been recycled into shovels, table legs, protective lead aprons and more. 

 PETER HERNANDEZ, AMERICAN IRON AND STEEL INST.: We`re concerned the public will not accept any radioactive-contaminated material in consumer goods. 

 SCHIAVONE: Over the next few years, 126,000 tons of radioactive scrap metal will be emerging from this nuclear weapons plant in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. It`s the old K-25 plant which supplied enriched uranium for generations of nuclear weapons, including the bomb dropped on Hiroshima. 

 JAMES MCANALLY, BRITISH NUCLEAR FUELS LTD.: We`re moving about 150 tons a week right now that is being decontaminated and released into general consumption. 

 SCHIAVONE: A company called British Nuclear Fuels is under U.S. government contract to dismantle and recycle metal from an Oak Ridge building equal in space to 66 football fields. 

 STEVEN RICHARDSON, DEPT. OF ENERGY: It`s a multi-year contract and they`re in the several early years, but to this point in time I think we`re satisfied, yes. 

 SCHIAVONE (on camera): There are natural and allowable levels of radiation in the everyday environment from rocks to radio waves. British Nuclear Fuels asserts the final product of their processing meets these levels. 

 MCANALLY: Then we survey it and check every square inch of it to make sure that it is totally clean, and then we put our name on it so that if anybody has any question on it, they know where the metal came from. 

 SCHIAVONE (voice-over): Most of the radioactive metal coming out of Oak Ridge is surface-contaminated carbon steel. Six thousand tons of some of the most contaminated material, nickel, has been ruled off- limits pending a review by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, but that`s not good enough for the steel industry. They don`t want any metal from any of the DOE sites in the general stream of commerce. 

 TOM DANJCZEK, STEEL MANUFACTURERS ASSN.: The government has a responsibility here not to contaminate the scrap supply stream with  the nation`s larger recycler. 

 SCHIAVONE (on camera): One major U.S. steel recycler, which asked not to be identified, tells MONEYLINE that it shut the door on scrap deliveries from Oak Ridge three years ago after two truckloads set off their radiation alarms. 

 (voice-over): While there are established radiation limits for liquids and gases, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has not established limits for solids like steel. In fact, DOE Secretary Bill Richardson has asked the NRC to address this issue, and in a recent memorandum established "a Re-use and Recycling Task Force which will conduct a review of department policies regarding the release of all materials." 

 LTV in Cleveland hasn`t taken scrap from Oak Ridge, but is well acquainted with the general problem, because radioactively contaminated scrap comes from a variety of sources such as hospitals and research labs. 

 CIVIC: There are no standards right now for cleaning. There are no standards now for monitoring. Until that -- those standards are developed, material that shouldn`t be released can be released. 

 SCHIAVONE: The steel industry and consumers agree it`s best to keep radioactively-contaminated metals out of the general recycling stream. And with $40-$60 billion in annual sales, the steel industry says even a 1 percent loss in confidence of steel would translate into a yearly business loss of half a billion dollars. 

 Louise Schiavone for CNN Financial News, Washington. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Up next, "Ahead Of The Curve." 

 VARNEY: Some of what you need to know tonight before those markets open up again tomorrow. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Disappointing economic news from Japan sparked today`s sell-off. Tomorrow, Wall Street will be focused on the U.S. economy. At 8:30 a.m. Eastern, the latest figures on retail sales are due out. 

 Also, you might want to keep an eye on the share price of Dell Computer and Ariba, because after the bell the two companies announced a B2B e-commerce alliance. 

 Also watch AT&T, tomorrow its shareholders will vote on whether to create a tracking stock for its wireless operations. 

 And then on the earnings front: Oracle,  Martha Stewart (URL: http://www.marthastewart.com/) Living,  AnnTaylor (URL: N/A) and Saks (URL: http://www.proffitts.com/) all expected to report. And we`ll be talking to the CEO`s from two of those companies tomorrow: Oracle`s chief Larry Ellison, he`s going to join us, and Martha Stewart. That is tomorrow on MONEYLINE. 

 BAY: Well, that is MONEYLINE for this Monday. I`m Willow Bay. 

 VARNEY: And I`m Stuart Varney. "CROSSFIRE" is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other than  for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use  any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or 

 interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the  originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw3d00071




 U.S. stocks seen opening lower, London traders say. 

534 words
13 March 2000
11:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, March 13 (Reuters) - Wall Street looked set for a weak opening on Monday amid downturns in markets internationally, dealers said. 

 Britain's FTSE 100 was down some two percent while leading indices in German and France lost as much as three percent. Earlier Hong Kong's Hang Seng tumbled 4.1 percent. 

 "You would have to call the Street lower on the back of what's happening globally," said one dealer here, who noted weakness in June futures on the S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite indices. 

 The S&P traded down 15.60 points at 1,402.20 by 1125 GMT, while the Nasdaq - which powered to a succession of record peaks last week - lost 82.09 or 1.8 percent to 4,585.00. 

 "A fall like that on the Nasdaq doesn't look too healthy," the dealer said. 

 Dealers said resurgent worries over possible further increases in U.S. interest rates had helped hasten the decline. 

 The Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee next meets on March 21, after wholesale and retail price reports this week which could give an indication of the likelihood and scale of any increase in rates. 

 BARGAIN HUNTING 

 Stocks in focus in European trading included Procter & Gamble Co. , which traded up $1/4 on Instinet at $53-5/16 amid bargain-hunting after last week's heavy losses. 

 Elsewhere trading was quiet, with even General Motors Corp.  untraded on Instinet after reports that it was set to announce a strategic alliance with Italy's Fiat . 

 Under the deal, GM is expected to take a 20 percent stake in Fiat Auto in exchange for about five percent of the U.S. giant. The two called a joint news conference in Turin at 1600 GMT. 

 Aetna Inc. , the largest U.S. life and health insurer, was also untraded on Instinet. It said on Sunday it declined a $10 billion takeover offer from Wellpoint Health Networks Inc.  and ING America Insurance  and decided to split itself into two public companies. 

 Aetna, which has 47 million customers, will split itself into a healthcare company and a global financial services business. The company will sell international assets that do not fit the strategies of those two core businesses or provide adequate returns on capital. 

 On Friday, U.S. blue chips dropped as another consumer products company issued an earnings warning, reinforcing fears that traditional businesses are suffering amid price wars, higher raw materials costs and rising interest rates. 

 Dial Corp. , a maker of soaps, laundry detergent and other products said it faced a 10 to 12 percent drop in its first-half profits just two days after Procter & Gamble shocked investors with a profit warning. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 81.91 points, or 0.82 percent, to 9,928.82. 

 But the technology-laden Nasdaq, which closed above the 5,000 level for the first time on Thursday, hit another closing high, gaining 1.78 points, or 0.04 percent. ((David Holmes, London newsroom +44 171 542 4367, fax +44 171 542 2120, uk.equities.news@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3d04sp4


 Savannah Morning News, Ga., Investing Column 

 Lauren Rudd 
784 words
12 March 2000
Georgia
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 BLUE CHIP FROGS ARE BARGAINS: Stock prices crumbled Tuesday with the Dow Jones industrial average falling to its lowest level in nearly a year after a Procter & Gamble profit warning sparked a sell-off of "old economy" shares. Once again Wall Street is acting out a well-known fairy tale in reverse -- kissing blue chip companies and turning them into frogs. Meanwhile, cheering in the bleachers is Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, who warned Monday, for the second consecutive day, that interest rates would keep going up until the economy cools. 

 As a result, well-known prestigious blue chip companies have had to stand by and watch as the jaws of discontentment rip large pieces out of their market capitalization. Procter & Gamble lost 31 percent of its value in a single day Tuesday because next quarter's earnings will be somewhat less than a year ago. And yet virtual corporate infants, to whom the word profit requires a dictionary, seem to be always one step ahead of the hangman. 

 Take heart, there is some consolation. Exhausting analysis of more than 70 years of stock pricing data continues to support two key hypotheses about the stock market. The first is that over the long run stocks provide an average annual compounded total return of about 11 percent. The second is that in the short run the stocks are volatile. Yes, Virginia, stocks can fall in price and occasionally the angle of descent will take your breath away. 

 John Maynard Keynes, the renowned British economist and a very successful investor, once said that there is no shame at being found still owning a share of stock at the bottom of a price decline. "It is not the business," said Keynes, "far less the duty, of a serious investor to be constantly considering whether he should cut and run, or to feel himself open to blame if the price of his stock depreciates." 

 From time to time, noted Keynes, "it is the duty of a serious investor to accept the depreciation of his holdings with equanimity. An investor should be aiming primarily at long-period results and should be solely judged by these. Holding shares that have fallen in a general or sector-oriented market decline proves nothing and should not be the subject of reproach. It should certainly not be an argument for unloading when the market is least able to support such an action." 

 To their good fortune, many of today's investors have never been through one of Wall Street's really nasty upheavals. Furthermore, many seem to think declines and upheavals have been outlawed. They haven't. Wall Street is not Main Street. And while the bumps in the road are never fun, they occur. The difficulty is that to know exactly when they will occur requires a crystal ball. 

 Unfortunately, each time the markets become volatile there is no shortage of investors who begin to lose their confidence. Never let a decline force you to panic and hold a fire sale of your investments. The most judicious action is simply to be prepared for the eventuality in advance and accept it. 

 Furthermore, if the value of your portfolio temporarily falls in value, should you really care? The key is to avoid permanent losses. Those are the losses you incur if and when you panic and sell out because you are certain the next apocalypse of doom is right around the corner. 

 In the world of investing, myopia is more common than farsightedness. You might believe that you'll be able to keep your eyes on the distant prize if one or more of your stocks fall out of bed, but can you be sure. Just declaring yourself a patient, long-term investor does not automatically make you one. Most investors have a certain threshold for the amount of pain they can endure from the market. Once that threshold is exceeded, logic goes out the window. 

 Do not try to match, or outwit, the changing moods of Wall Street. Instead, set reasonable investment goals designed to meet your long-term objectives. Sailing on a calm sea is easy. The real challenge is to design a portfolio that can stand up to those inevitable financial storms. Just as important is not to lose sight of the fact that substantial price declines often result in excellent profit opportunities. So what you want to do is to look for bargains in the carnage. 

 You can write to financial columnist Lauren Rudd at 6 Keelson Lane, Savannah, GA 31411 or by e-mail LVERudd@aol.com or visit him on the Web at www.savannahcapital.com. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw3c00jvg




BIZ
BRIEFING

1,222 words
11 March 2000
The Denver Post
DNVR
SAT1
C-02
English
Copyright © 2000 The Denver Post Corp. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Local

ONLINE GROCER TO BUILD HUB: Online grocer Webvan Group Inc. confirmed that it plans to build a distribution center in Denver. The company, based in Forest City, Calif., said it signed a lease with Catellus Development Corp. to build a 350,000-square-foot warehouse near the former Stapleton Airport. The warehouse will service the greater Denver area. The company did not disclose a time line for construction. Webvan plans to develop a distribution and delivery infrastructure in 26states during the next three years. The company already operates in the San Francisco Bay area and expects to launch Atlanta operations in May. (The Denver Post)

ACT WILL SELL STOCK: ACT Teleconferencing Inc. filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission to sell 2 million common shares. The Golden-based provider of audio- and video-conferencing services expects the stock sale to raise $27.2 million after expenses, according to the registration statement. ACT will use the proceeds to accelerate development and deployment of Internet-based conferencing products and services, the filing said. The company will also use some of the moneytorepay debt and redeem preferred stock, open additional operations centers, acquire equipment and provide working capital. (Bloomberg)

GORDMANS TO UNVEIL NEW CONCEPT: Gordmans, a discount retailer based in Omaha, plans to unveil a new store concept with the reopening of three stores today. Previously operated as 1/2 Price Stores, the Gordmans stores offer entertainment attractions, including a children's theater, a comfortable seating area and televisions, the company said. The new stores will sell name-brand clothing, shoes, and home furnishings and accessories at a discount, said Gordmans. The transformedstoresreopen at 14400 E. Alameda Ave. in Aurora, at West Colfax Avenue and Kipling Street in Lakewood, and at the Thornton Town Center in Thornton. (The Denver Post)

TELETECH ANNOUNCES VITESSA DEAL: TeleTech Holdings Inc., an e-commerce management company, announced Friday that it has formed an alliance and marketing agreement with Vitessa Corp., a provider of infrastructure for e-commerce. Under the alliance, TeleTech has integrated Vitessa's "Buy Button" technology into TeleTech's CyberCare eCRM platform. The companies will also work on developing products and will sell each other's products and services. (The Denver Post)

WESTPORT TO BUY EQUITABLE UNIT: Equitable Resources Inc., owner of a Pittsburgh natural gas utility, agreed to sell its Gulf of Mexico exploration business to Westport Oil and Gas Co. for $50 million and a stake in the closely held Denver company. Equitable said it will acquire almost 50 percent of Westport. Equitable plans to use the cash to help pay for its $630 million purchase of Appalachian gas fields from Norway's Satoil AS. The companies expect to complete the transactionnextmonth. (Bloomberg)

Nation/World

STOCKS END MOSTLY LOWER: Stocks were mostly lower Friday as the consumer products sector, already trampled by Procter & Gamble's disappointing earnings forecast, slipped further on a similar warning from Dial Corp. High-tech stocks fell as investors cashed in some gains from the sector's recent rally. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 81.91 to 9,928.82, capping a highly volatile week. The Dow fell 438.38 points for the week, a loss of 4.2 percent. The Nasdaq composite index,whichfluctuated between gains and losses throughout the session, finished up 1.76 at 5,048.62, achieving a new closing high. Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 6.62 to 1,395.07. Declining issues outnumbered advancers by an 11-to-8 ratio on the New York Stock Exchange. (AP)

MICROSOFT DECISION UNDERCUTS ADVANCED MICRO: Advanced Micro Devices Inc. shares fell 8.3 percent after Microsoft Corp. chose rival Intel Corp.'s chip technology to power the new X-Box video-game console. Advanced Micro fell $4.75 to $52.75 on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have gained 82 percent this year as the Sunnyvale, Calif.-based company unveiled faster chips that challenged Intel, the No. 1 computer-chip maker. Intel rose $1.813 to $120.188. (Bloomberg)

LOCKHEED WINS $2.1 BILLION CONTRACT: Lockheed Martin Corp., the world's largest defense company, was awarded a contract valued at $2.1 billion for 50 F-16 fighter jets from Greece. The agreement includes an option for an additional 10 aircraft. The order lists mission equipment and support provisions, including radar made by Northrop Grumman Corp. (Bloomberg)

DIAL ISSUES EARNINGS WARNING: Dial Corp. said first-half earnings will fall because of lower-than-expected sales and rising costs for raw materials such as oil, sending the soap maker's shares tumbling 23 percent. Shares of the maker of Dial soaps, Purex laundry detergent and Armour Star meats fell $3.25 to $11, a record low close. Dial's announcement follows a similar warning from industry leader Procter & Gamble Co., which said rising costs for oil and pulp as well as competition inLatin America will cut into profit. (Bloomberg)

HEWLETT-PACKARD EXEC TO RETIRE: Hewlett-Packard Co. said Antonio Perez, president of the consumer and digital-media businesses at the world's second-largest computer maker, will retire at the end of the month. No replacement was named for Perez, who was made one of four presidents at Hewlett-Packard last year. He was considered for the top job at the computer maker when it was searching for a new chief executive last year. (Bloomberg)

RAMBUS PLANS 4-TO-1 STOCK SPLIT: Chip maker Rambus Inc. said Friday it will split its stock four shares for one. The split will quadruple the number of shares to 96 million while reducing the value of each share by 75 percent. The new shares will be issued June 14 to shareholders of record as of May 24. (Dow Jones)

INFINEON AG TO BEGIN TRADING: Infineon AG, Europe's third-biggest maker of computer chips, could become one of the 10 most valuable companies on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange when its shares start trading Monday. A 50 percent gain in its stock price would give Infineon a market value of 30 billion euros ($29 billion), leapfrogging Bayer AG, now the ninth-biggest company in Germany's benchmark Dax index. (Bloomberg)

GE'S WELCH EARNS $93 MILLION: General Electric Co. Chief Executive John F. Welch Jr. took home $93.1 million last year, including $13.3 million in salary and bonus, as the company's stock rose 52 percent. Welch, who is slated to retire in April 2001, was paid $3.3 million in salary and a bonus of $10 million. Welch also received $31.3 million in long-term incentive payouts under a grant General Electric gave executives in 1997, half in cash and half in restricted stock payable uponretirement. He also got $48.49 million, before taxes, by exercising options and stock-appreciation rights awarded in 1992 and 1993 (Bloomberg)

ANHEUSER-BUSCH CHAIRMAN'S COMPENSATION RISES: Anheuser-Busch Cos., the world's largest brewer, increased Chairman August Busch III's total compensation 18 percent in 1999 to $3.5 million after the company benefited from a strong market for its beers. The maker of Budweiser and Michelob also awarded Busch 425,000 stock options that would have a value of $51.3 million if the stock rises 10 percent a year, according to a regulatory filing. (Bloomberg)

Document DNVR000020150821dw3b00qk6




BUSINESS
Dial's  profit warning  helps deflate Dow; Nasdaq is flat

Associated Press   
846 words
11 March 2000
Houston Chronicle
HOU
3 STAR
3
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK - Stocks were mostly lower Friday as the consumer products sector, already trampled by Procter & Gamble's disappointing earnings forecast, slipped further on a similar warning from Dial Corp.

High-tech stocks were flat, with investors cashing in gains from the sector's recent rally.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 81.91 to 9,928.82, capping a volatile week. The Dow dropped 438.38 points during the week, a loss of 4.2 percent.

The Nasdaq composite index, which fluctuated between gains and losses throughout the session, finished up 1.76 at 5,048.62, achieving a new closing high by the slimmest of margins. The Nasdaq rose 133 points during the week, a gain of 2.7 percent.

Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 6.62 to 1,395.07.

Consumer products stocks struggled after Dial said its earnings for the first half of this year will be down at least 10 percent from a year ago. Its stock plunged 3 1/4 to 11 on the news.

Dial was the second consumer products maker to warn of disappointing earnings this week.

On Tuesday, Procter & Gamble shook Wall Street when it announced its third-quarter earnings would miss expectations. That sent the Dow tumbling nearly 375 points.

"Another consumer products company stubbed its toe and now buyers are wary of anything in the blue-chip sector," said Alan Ackerman, senior vice president at Fahnestock & Co.

Procter & Gamble fell 3 7/8 to 53 7/8. Its shares have fallen 39 percent since Tuesday.

Blue chip stocks have been most heavily affected by investors' fears that the Federal Reserve will continue raising interest rates this year to combat inflation. In a reversal of old expectations, investors now feel that the slower growth rates of industrial companies will leave them most vulnerable to higher interest rates, which generally cut into corporate profits.

"That's put all of the old-line cyclical stocks under severe pressure while the Nasdaq has gone screaming out to new highs," said Ricky Harrington, technical analyst at Wachovia Securities in Charlotte, N.C.

The Nasdaq's sprint to 5,000 this week prompted many investors to take a step back Friday. The index closed above 5,000 for the first time on Thursday, breaking through its latest thousand-point barrier just over two months after closing above 4,000 for the first time.

Analysts said some investors were collecting their gains from the Nasdaq's dramatic rise.

CMGI fell 8 15/16 to 136 7/16 and Oracle 2 3/8 to 81 5/8. Among Dow components, Hewlett-Packard was off 4 59/64 to 150 61/64.

"The market started with a bullish tone today. However, traders were quick to take profits," Ackerman said.

Ackerman and other analysts still expect the Nasdaq to remain the best-performing U.S. stock index in the months to come, thanks to big money from mutual funds and pension plans pouring into the technology sector.

Indeed, some technology stocks continued to attract buyers. Round Rock-based Dell Computer rose 13/16 to 51 1/4 after PaineWebber raised its rating on the stock to "buy." Qualcomm rose 9 1/8 to 136 1/8.

Financial shares, which have been punished recently by investors worried about interest rates, were looking more attractive Friday as the market realized that these companies are enjoying revenue increases because of the rising volume of stock trading.

American Express was the biggest gainer among Dow components, rising 3 15/16 to 126 11/16. Charles Schwab rose 6 3/4 to 52 1/4.

Goldman Sachs jumped 5 1/16 to 112 1/4 on volume that was heavy enough to prompt the New York Stock Exchange to ask the firm to explain the unusual market activity. Goldman Sachs declined to comment to the NYSE or to the Associated Press.

The price of the 30-year treasury bond fell 11/32 point, or $3.43 3/4 per $1,000 in face value. The yield rose to 6.17 percent from 6.15 percent late Thursday.

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by 11-to-8 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume totaled 1.39 billion shares.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 2.24 to 603.81.

Mexico's bolsa index fell 142.25, or 1.7 percent, to 8,177.42. Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.5 percent. Germany's Xetra DAX index rose 0.3 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 gained 0.6 percent, and France's CAC-40 rose 1.4 percent.

In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 106.22 yen, down from 106.46 late Thursday, and at 9.317 pesos, up from 9.285. The peso's value fell to 10.7331 cents from 10.7701. The euro was quoted at 96.16 cents, down from 96.75.

Document HOU0000020120818dw3b00irf




DBusiness
Stocks sink a bit, ending tough week; Dial follows P&G's  profit warning  with its own, hurting consumer sector

Associated Press   
449 words
11 March 2000
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
MLWK
Final
2
English
Copyright 2000, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Stocks were mostly lower Friday as the consumer products sector, already trampled by Procter & Gamble's disappointing earnings forecast, slipped further on a similar warning from Dial Corp. High-tech stocks fell as investors cashed in some gains from the sector's recent rally.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 81.91 to 9928.82, capping a highly volatile week. The Dow fell 438.38 points for the week, a loss of 4.2%.

The Nasdaq Composite Index, which fluctuated between gains and losses throughout the session, finished up 1.76 at 5048.62, achieving a new closing high by the slimmest of margins. The Nasdaq rose 133.83 points during the week, a gain of 2.7%.

Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 6.62 to 1395.07.

Consumer products stocks struggled after Dial said its earnings for the first half of this year will be down at least 10% from a year ago. Its stock plunged $3.25, to $11, on the news.

Dial was the second consumer products maker to warn of disappointing earnings this week. On Tuesday, Procter & Gamble shook Wall Street when it announced that its third-quarter earnings would miss expectations. That sent the Dow tumbling nearly 375 points.

"Another consumer products company stubbed its toe, and now buyers are wary of anything in the blue-chip sector," said Alan Ackerman, senior vice president at Fahnestock & Co.

Procter & Gamble fell $4, to $53.75. Its shares have fallen 39% since Tuesday's announcement.

Blue-chip stocks have been most heavily affected by investors' fears that the Federal Reserve will continue raising interest rates this year to combat inflation. In a reversal of old expectations, investors now feel that the slower growth rates of industrial companies will leave them most vulnerable to higher interest rates, which generally cut into corporate profits.

"That's put all of the old-line cyclical stocks under severe pressure, while the Nasdaq has gone screaming out to new highs," said Ricky Harrington, technical analyst at Wachovia Securities in Charlotte, N.C.

The Nasdaq's sprint to 5000 this week prompted many investors to take a step back Friday. The index closed above 5000 for the first time on Thursday, breaking through its latest thousand-point barrier just over two months after closing above 4000 for the first time.

CMGI fell $8.938, to $136.438, and Oracle fell $2.375, to $81.625.

Among Dow components, Hewlett Packard fell $4.938, to $146.938.

Document MLWK000020100319dw3b00pu1


 Business 
 MONEYLINE 

 Stuart Varney, Willow Bay, Greg Clarkin, Charles Molineaux, Bill Dorman, Steve Young, Bruce Francis, Bob Beard, Jim Moret, Allan Dodds Frank, Casey Wian, Peter Viles 
8,500 words
10 March 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  Tonight on MONEYLINE, stocks falter in the final hour of trading, a discouraging end to a tumultuous week. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  The government gives the merger go-ahead to Qwest Communications (URL: http://www.qwest.net/) and U S West (URL: http://www.uswest.com/) .  But after wrangling with Deutsche Telekom (URL: http://www.dtag.de/) , can their deal really work? 

 VARNEY: Plus, it`s watching your every point and click: how to protect yourself from "Big Browser." Our Net privacy series continues. 

 BAY: And tonight, a company on the verge of stepping out of Intel`s shadow. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 W.J. SANDERS, ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES: We`re going to beat them with ideas. Athlon is a better idea. We`re gaining market share against all their efforts, and I think that`s the way to beat these guys. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: We`ll have "The Bottom Line" on AMD. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Stuart Varney and Willow Bay. 

 BAY: Good evening. The week on wall street ended exactly how it began, with selling. 

 VARNEY: Correct. The Dow closed out its fourth losing week out of five and ended today below 10,000. Investors wiped out all of an early rally and disappointed by another profit warning in the consumer products business. The Dow shed 81 points. It closed at 9,928, and that was near its low for the session. Even the Nasdaq took a hit. It barely made it to another record high -- it did, but only just. 

 Greg Clarkin has more on what`s been worrying investors. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Another profit warning from a consumer goods company spooked investors. This time it was soap-maker Dial Corporation (URL: http://www.dialcorp.com/) coming clean, saying first-half profits will be below expectations. Dial`s confession comes just three days after Procter & Gamble`s (URL: http://www.pg.com/) profit warning jolted Wall Street. And P&G slid again, losing 40 percent for the week. Dial`s shares shed  more than 3, Clorox  (URL: http://www.clorox.com/) , Colgate-Palmolive (URL: http://www.colgate.com/) and Johnson & Johnson (URL: http://www.jnj.com/) were dragged down as well. 

 In addition to P&G, dragging the Dow lower was Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com/) , plunging more than five, Coca-Cola (URL: http://www.cocacola.com/) suffered from the so-called "old economy malaise," giving back more than 2 1/2. ExxonMobil (URL: http://www.exxon.mobil.com/) shed 3 1/2 with news OPEC may boost production. 

 JON BURNHAM, PRESIDENT, BURNHAM FUNDS: People want to get out of the smokestack American companies because they don`t have anything like the growth rates that the high-tech companies do have. So it`s rather simple. That`s what`s going -- a huge rotation. 

 CLARKIN: The tech sector led the Nasdaq marginally higher. Semiconductor stocks were once again the catalyst for another record high. Also picking up steam: brokerage stocking. Rumors of takeover sent the group soaring. Most touted as targets: Goldman Sachs (URL: http://www.gs.com/) and Merrill Lynch (URL: http://www.ml.com/) . 

 DREW CUPPS, STRONG FUNDS: Investors should always be concerned, and they should always take the time to understand what they own and why they own it. And that`s what will enable them to get through that volatility. 

 CLARKIN: Getting whipsawed, the telecom deal du jour: Deutsche Telekom`s bid for Qwest and U.S. West. The phone German company pulled its bid today, sending shares of its U.S. targets plunging. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: Now the lack of conviction among investors is worrying many market watchers and may contribute to more choppy trading next week. And batch of economic reports, including figures on retail sales and inflation at both the wholesale and consumer levels are expected to steer next week`s action as well -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, Greg Clarkin reporting. Thanks, Greg. 

 BAY: The broader market`s decline makes the Nasdaq`s week look even more remarkable. The index, of course, closing above 5,000 yesterday for the first time, and it racked up a 2.7 percent gain on the week. 

 Charles Molineaux has been watching it all from the Nasdaq marketsite, and he joins us now with more -- Charles. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Well, Willow, after the Nasdaq leaped over 5,000 and stayed there yesterday, strategists are very impressed that it held on to yesterday`s gains today. Although we did see some profit taking during the day, the Nasdaq composite followed up yesterday`s rally by skyrocketing over 5,100, then plummeting into negative territory twice before managing a one-point gain and a new record close. 

 Financial stocks kept this market above water with a lot of help from online brokerages like Ameritrade (URL: http://www.ameritradeholding.com/) and E*TRADE (URL: http://www.etrade.com/) , thriving in this market`s ferocious volume. 

 Telecom stocks were up by 1.5 percent. Some of them, like Next Link, enjoyed speculation that if Deutsche Telekom isn`t merging with Qwest, they may be takeover targets. 

 Wireless stocks surged, too. SGM Wireless  was up by 20 percent. 

 Computer chip stocks kept going up another 3 percent. KLA Tencor (URL: http://www.kla.com/) and Novellus Systems (URL: http://www.novellus.com/) lifted, and Rambus (URL: http://www.rambus.com/) took off 10 -- almost 11 percent after announcing a big four-for-one stock split. 

 But Internet stocks, like Excite @Home (URL: http://www.home.net/) and CMGI (URL: http://www.cmgi.com/) , sank 1 percent after some early strength on the day. 

 Also, biotechs were down after some positive starts on the day. Look at Biogen  (URL: http://www.biogen.com/) , down 6.6 percent, although Advanced Tissue Sciences  took off 68 percent after it rolled out its new patch for heart patients. 

 The Nasdaq`s barely positive performance today notwithstanding, investors are still hot for technology and new tech opportunities, and today`s IPO from business to business e-commerce software company Selectica (URL: http://www.selectica.com/) turned into a moon shot. It gained 382 percent on its first day out -- Stuart, Willow. 

 BAY: Charles Molineaux, always breathtaking, thank you. 

 Well, the Nasdaq and high-flying tech stocks are grabbing the banner headlines, but our next guest says don`t forget about all those beaten- down value stocks, Leah Modigliani of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (URL: http://www.msdw.com/) . 

 Welcome back, Leah, to MONEYLINE. 

 LEAH MODIGLIANI, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: Thank you, nice to be back. 

 BAY: Are you really making the case now that investors should own a balanced portfolio, old and new? And how do you talk investors into owning old economy stocks at this point? 

 MODIGLIANI: Yes, I think I really am saying you should own old and new stocks. I do think that this gap between the old and new economy will tend to close over time. I don`t know exactly when, but I think the market has gotten riskier, and I think people shouldn`t forget about the old economy stocks. 

 BAY: Now you`re not saying that the old economy stocks have hit bottom yet, are you? 

 MODIGLIANI: I think they`re probably close, but I couldn`t say that for sure. 

 BAY: Close but maybe not quite there. 

 MODIGLIANI: With interest rates rising, maybe... 

 BAY: But they are certainly in your mind undervalued. 

 MODIGLIANI: They are certainly undervalued. 

 BAY: What old economy sectors do you expect to be star performers this year, if any? 

 MODIGLIANI: I think that the energy stocks and the paper stocks are interesting here. 

 BAY: Let`s talk about energy stocks. What kind of projected earnings growth do you think we`ll see there? 

 MODIGLIANI: We`re seeing very good earnings growth already out of there, as high as the tech funds themselves, like 30 percent or so earnings out of the energy area. 

 BAY: And same for basic materials? Paper? 

 MODIGLIANI: Basic materials, paper included, yes. 

 BAY: So you`re saying we can buy old economy stocks and get comparable performance to the average tech earnings? 

 MODIGLIANI: The earnings will come in as strong as the tech earnings, that`s right, in the next year or so. That`s what we`re looking at. Now we`ll see if the stocks react the way that you`d hope they would, but that`s what we`re seeing for earnings. 

 BAY: So give me a quick couple of names. 

 MODIGLIANI: Mead is a paper stock that I`ve liked for some time. 

 BAY: Energy? Oil? 

 MODIGLIANI: Energy, I like Schlumberger (URL: http://www.slb.com/) , an oil services stock. 

 BAY: What should we stay away from? 

 MODIGLIANI: Well, like I said, I`m holding a balanced portfolio. I am holding some of the high-flying tech names because I don`t know exactly when this valuation gap is going to close. And I think that no one knows exactly, so I`m not staying away from any of the high-flying tech stocks. I don`t particularly like the consumer names right here. I`m not ready to jump into P&G yet. 

 BAY: Investor confidence is extraordinarily high, and one can see why given the performance that we`ve seen. Should it be? 

 MODIGLIANI: I think that people are a little over-optimistic right now. This has been a great time for the market, and I think because of the recent past we think that`s just going to keep going forever. And I`m not quite convinced that it`s going to so I think a little caution is warranted. 

 BAY: Caution from Leah Modigliani, thank you. 

 MODIGLIANI: Thank you. 

 VARNEY: It`s that time now for a quick check of what else is on  our plate for the rest of this program, MONEYLINE. Here`s what our other reporters are working on. 

 Here`s Bill Dorman -- Bill. 

 BILL DORMAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Thanks, Stuart. 

 Another nasty earnings surprise for a consumer products company. Dial disappoints, and investors are taking revenge. I`ll tell you how bad the damage is and why Dial is dragging down some other companies down as well. 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: I`m Steve Young. 

 The tangled talks involving Qwest, U.S. West and Deutsche Telekom collapsed. As I`ll explain, that`s left Qwest`s CEO Joseph Nacchio facing a lot of mighty unhappy investors. 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: And I`m Bruce Francis. 

 Long the also-ran of the microprocessor business, AMD (URL: http://www.amd.com/) is running faster and feistier than ever. But is it ready for the big time with its big new chip? I`ll have "The Bottom Line." 

 BAY: Also coming up on MONEYLINE, as oil prices soar, airfares are climbing with them. We`ll tell you which major carriers hiked their rates today. 

 VARNEY: And later, the promise of privacy on the Web. Find out if the fine print meets your expectations, as our series on Internet privacy continues. 

 ANNOUNCER: From CNN`s New York headquarters, this is THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: High-altitude oil costs pushing airfares skyward. Two major U.S. Airlines today announced price increases. And investors seemed to approve, pushing several of the major carriers higher. Continental (URL: http://www.continental.com/) and AMR (URL: http://www.amrcorp.com/) among the biggest winners. But the enthusiasm might not last, as the fare hikes come at a time when industry analysts say they`re concerned about falling profits. 

 Bob Beard has our report. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BOB BEARD, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Rising fuel prices are now hitting the air line ticket counter. Today Continental Airlines raised airfares by up to $40 a ticket, depending on the length of the flight. Within hours, Northwest matched the increase on some of its promotional fares, but not across the board. 

 The latest fare hikes on top of $20 fuel surcharge imposed by major airlines on round-trip tickets in January. 

 DAVID FUSCUS, AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION: As jet fuel prices keep going higher and higher, the airlines can really eat less and less of that. They`re forced to pass a law. Jet fuel prices, currently at 85 cents a gallon, have almost doubled from 45 cents a year ago. Some calculate that costs the industry an extra $8 billion. 

 DONALD CARTY, CEO, AMERICAN AIRLINES: It is a fundamental economic reality that the airlines can`t afford, at their current levels, to absorb $8 billion of cost increase. 

 BEARD: So far this year, the average airline stock is down 20 percent, and some analysts predict some carriers will lose money this quarter for the first time in six years. 

 JAMES M. HIGGINS, DONALDSON, LUFKIN JENRETTE: If fuel prices stay high, airline earnings estimates come down, that`s rarely a prescription for strong stock prices. 

 BEARD: Continental`s already warned it may post a first-quarter loss due to fuel costs. For now, United American (URL:  N/A) and Delta (URL: http://www.delta-air.com/) hedged their fuel costs by locking in contracts that average 30 percent below spot prices. 

 (on camera): Travel experts say Northwest`s (URL: http://www.nwa.com) decision to match Continental`s airfare hikes on some flights now increases the chances others airlines will follow suit. 

 Bob Beard, CNN Financial News, Washington. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: A White House move to cut delays in U.S. air travel topping our "News Digest" tonight. With that now, Jim Moret in Los Angeles -- Jim. 

 JIM MORET, CNNfn ANCHOR: Thank you, Willow. 

 President Clinton today announced measures to centralize the country`s air traffic control system. He`s taking action after record U.S. flight delays last summer, with a 76 percent rise between June and July. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 WILLIAM J. CLINTON, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: America`s 21st century air traffic control system should provide 21st century high-tech service. The system has worked better with its customers, the commercial airlines and others who pay for the system. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 MORET: And the president is opposing a minimum-wage increase, passed last night by the House. Mr. Clinton is demanding a hike with no extras, that after the House approved a $1 increase over two years, plus $122 billion in tax cuts. Republicans argue those cuts will compensate business for costs attached to raising the wage. 

 In the White House race, Democrat Al Gore returned to campaigning. As Colorado and Utah held primaries, Wyoming conducted Republican caucuses. Gore`s rival, George W. Bush, took the day off. Aides say his campaign is trying to make peace with John McCain, who did not endorse Bush when he suspended his run early this week. And near San Francisco, real estate in ruins, with heavy rains triggering a cliff collapse and a mudslide. More than 20 homes are wrecked or in danger, some worth half a million. 

 More than 20 homes are wrecked or in danger, some worth half a million. 

 And I`ll have more on the race for the White House on "THE WORLD TODAY." That`s at 8:00 p.m. Eastern, 5:00 p.m. Pacific. But now back to Stuart Varney in New York. 

 VARNEY: All right, Jim Moret thanks very much. 

 Now let`s move on to tonight`s "Tech Watch." 

 We have Sony`s high-flying stock buffeted by glitches in its hot new game console. Sony said that some of its Playstation 2 consoles, which went on sale in Japan last week, have malfunctioned. More than 300 customers complained about glitches in the memory cards that caused information to be erased. The stock dropped more than 15 1/2 points. It is off 18 percent this week. 

 BAY: Next on MONEYLINE, the final installment of our series "Net Privacy: Who is Watching You?" 

 VARNEY: Tonight, we go inside the movement to keep your secrets from going public. Now that is coming up. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: In tonight`s "MONEYLINE Movers," SRS Labs (URL:  N/A) surged nearly 13. Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) has made an equity investment in the company, which develops audio and voice technology. SRS would not reveal the size of the investment. 

 Tyco International (URL: http://www.tycoint.com) up 2 1/8. It`s taking its fiber optics networking business public. Salomon Smith Barney also upped its earnings estimates for Tyco. 

 And Exodus Communications (URL: http://www.exodus.net) up 6.  SG Cowen started the stock with a strong buy rating, saying it is bullish on the $3 billion Web-hosting market. 

 VARNEY: Other companies making news: McDonald`s (URL: http://www.mcdonalds.com/) said its sales jumped 11 percent to more than $6 billion in January and February. Driving the gains: a surge in overseas sales. 

 Motorola (URL: http://www.mot.com/) announced it will pull the plug on Iridium (URL: http://www.irid.com/) , saying it`ll stop servicing the troubled  satellite phone system next Friday unless a buyer emerges. Motorola had been the primary financial backer for Iridium, which filed for bankruptcy last August. 

 Lockheed Martin (URL: http://www.lockheed.com) scored a major contract. Today it announced the sale of 50 F-16 military jets to Greece. The price tag there, more than $2 billion. Here`s what happened to those stocks. Lockheed Martin down fractionally. Motorola surged more than 10. McDonald`s up 1/4. 

 BAY: All this week, we`ve told you about some of the extraordinary benefits, both to consumers and to businesses, of the Internet revolution. We`ve also told you about the hazards of going online, how your most personal secrets can end up in someone else`s  database. 

 Tonight, in our final installment of "Net Privacy: Who is Watching You," Allan Dodds Frank looks at the battle to protect your privacy online. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ALLAN DODDS FRANK, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is a cookie, a small electronic tag invisibly lodged in your computer by almost every Web site you visit. Cookies, say Internet entrepreneurs, are good because they help Web site operators identify customers and their needs. 

 But there is a flip side to cookies. 

 BOB LEVIN, CEO. TRUSTE.COM: Now what`s happened in cookies is of course the concern that people have, that the cookies, if you will, follow them around so that you can keep track of the sites that you visit or the pages that you click on. 

 FRANK: Cookies do not forget. They trace your every move. And information they collect often is sold to companies whose Web site you never access directly. 

 JASON CATLETT, JUNKBUSTERS.COM: Right now we`re living in a kind of a Wild West Web, where personal information is grabbed and there`s very little protection for it. 

 FRANK: Currently, no law directly protects consumers` Internet privacy, nor requires them to be notified about what personal information is being collected or how it is being used. 

 ELIOT SPITZER, ATTORNEY GENERAL, NEW YORK STATE: It`s not Big Brother we have to be worried about, it`s "Big Browser." And where that will take us is hard to predict, but it conjures images of an Orwellian "1984," where you have information brokers out there who can tell too much about each one of us. 

 FRANK: And hundreds of companies are busy mining your credit information, your medical history, your investment inquiries, your spending habits and your personal interests. Many companies have privacy policies. But the burden is on consumers to read the fine print, which often discloses that the information could be transferred to others. 

 DAVID SOBEL, ELECTRONIC PRIVACY INFORMATION CENTER: While you might be satisfied with the assurance that the company is providing you  with today, if their business model changes next month, you might find that that information is no longer protected in the way that you originally thought it was. 

 JIM DEMPSEY, CENTER FOR DEMOCRACY & TECHNOLOGY: The consumer has limited legal recourse. The consumer, however, still has, and is, I think, enjoying increasing market power. And you`re seeing a lot of companies, when called to task in public by consumers changing course and adopting more privacy-friendly policies. 

 FRANK: Some existing laws do help protect consumers in limited areas, including securities. So, unlike many other agencies, the Securities and Exchange Commission has more than 200 people monitoring the Internet. 

 RICHARD WALKER, DIRECTOR OF ENFORCEMENT, S.E.C.: We can see fraud as it occurs. It gives us an opportunity that we`ve never had before on a real-time basis to see false or fraudulent types of sales pitches that are made to investors. 

 FRANK: While the Federal Trade Commission and Congress are considering possible Internet regulation, private lawyers are already on the case. 

 MEGAN GRAY, BAKER AND HOSTETLER: What we`re seeing now is the first wave of class action and plaintiffs lawyers that are jumping in to slam those companies that are not in compliance with their privacy policies. What we`ll see as the next wave is actions against those companies that don`t have privacy policies. 

 FRANK (on camera): Internet companies, of course, would prefer to police themselves. But, as privacy pressures mount, Congress may decide Internet users need federal protection. 

 Allan Dodds Frank CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Next, we`re going to the gaming industry. Las Vegas casinos decide to make peace with some of their top competitors. 

 BAY: Why the strip changed its mind about Native American gaming, when MONEYLINE returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) VARNEY: The gaming industry in the midst of a dramatic makeover. A day after MGM Grand (URL: http://www.mgmgrand.com/) won its bid  to swallow Mirage (URL: http://www.mirageresorts.com/) , California voters overwhelmingly approved a ballot measure allowing its Native American casinos to expand their operations. Las Vegas used to view Native American gaming as a threat and fought vigorously against previous  tribal expansion efforts. 

 But as Casey Wian reports, Nevada`s opposition is now fading. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Ow, she has it. 

 CASEY WIAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Blackjack for the house at the Spotlight 29 casino. This modest desert gambling parlor on Native American land, about two and a half hours from L.A., caters mostly to locals. But under a new California law, and with the help of a new deal with one of the biggest names in gaming, Spotlight 29 has ambitious plans to expand its reach. Donald Trump`s company will provide up to $60 million for new Vegas-style slot machines and an upscale hotel in exchange for a portion of the casino`s profits. 

 GENE GAMBALE, SPOTLIGHT 29 CASINO: Once facilities start upgrading their standards, as we`d like to do, that you`re going to attract people, say from L.A., that might have just gone straight out to Vegas. And maybe they`ll just stop a couple hours short of that and come here instead. We`ll put a dent in their business. 

 WIAN (on camera): Thirty-five percent of Nevada`s gambling revenue comes from California residents. While analysts don`t believe the spread of Indian casinos in California will have much of an impact on high-end properties on the Las Vegas strip, companies with casinos in places like Reno, Laughlin and Lake Tahoe could be hit hard. 

 (voice over): Just 18 months ago, Nevada casinos spent $22 million to fight a California ballot initiative allowing expanded Indian gaming. Now the tables have turned. In fact, some Nevada casinos are now signing deals to get a piece of the Indian gaming action. 

 GAMBALE: Vegas decided that if you can`t beat them join them and that it would be more fun to sleep with the enemy than to fight with the enemy. 

 WIAN: Harrah`s (URL: http://harrahs.com/) recently announced plans to build and manage a $110 million hotel-casino for an Indian tribe near San Diego. 

 JAN JONES, HARRAH`S: Analysts estimate the California market to be in the neighborhood of $2 to $5 billion in potential revenues. We can introduce them to Harrah`s, and then through cross-market play and incentive programs, we can take them nationwide. 

 WIAN: But many of the 40 Indian casinos currently operating in California say they have no plans to share profits with traditional gaming companies. 

 WALTONA MANION, CASINO MARONGO: There will be casinos who want to tap into outside expertise and financing, but the majority of tribes in the state of California will remain self-managed. 

 WIAN: And Indian-owned. Federal law prohibits outsiders from actually owning casinos on Indian land. 

 Casey Wian CNN Financial News, Coachella, California. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY; Still to come, another volatile week on Wall Street and another day of divergence. We`ll take to market historian Jeremy Siegel about what it all means. 

 VARNEY: And a telecom triangle broken. Can Qwest and U.S. West make there deal without Deutsche Telekom? 

 BAY: Plus, the company that`s tired of being second best. Up next with "The Bottom Line" on AMD. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s headlines, as the Nasdaq scores its 16th record of the year, we pick apart the very concept that`s driving the rally. Question: Are high-tech stocks immune to high interest rates? 

 Another blowup in the consumer products sector: a report on why selling soap isn`t as profitable as it used to be. 

 And our special Friday feature, "The Bottom Line." Tonight, Advanced Micro Devices, the perennial No. 2 finally beats Intel to the punch. 

 BAY: First, more on our top story: a week when the gap between the Dow and the Nasdaq was so big, you could drive a truck through it. As the Nasdaq made its seemingly inevitable run at 5,000, the Dow suffered one of its worst point drops in history. 

 The numbers say it all: a triple-digit point gain for the Nasdaq over the past five sessions, a triple-digit point loss for the Dow. 

 Peter Viles now on a week that was as unpredictable as it was dramatic. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The split in the stock market has never been more apparent: So-called "old economy" stocks are hammered by fears of higher rates, higher oil prices and an earnings shocker from Procter & Gamble while the Nasdaq goes about its merry way, blasting through 5,000. 

 VINCE FARRELL, SPEARS, BENZAK, SALOMON & FARRELL: An amazing week. I wonder if the Nasdaq can continue this strength when you`ve got the  old economy faltering so badly. You know, the new economy has got to sell its stuff to somebody, and it is the old economy that buys it. 

 So I`m not sure that you can continue this incredible string on the Nasdaq without at least a hiccup somewhere down the road very soon. 

 VILES: Every day this week, the Nasdaq outpeformed the Dow. At week`s end, the Nasdaq had gained 2.7 percent while the Dow, slammed by Tuesday`s 374-point loss, had lost 4.2 percent. 

 FRANK LA SALLA, CEO, BHF SECURITIES: I think that clearly the remarks we got from Alan Greenspan this week coupled with the news on Procter & Gamble on disappointing earnings will just exacerbate the divergence. But it also seems to me that it`s becoming more and more clear that people really aren`t looking at the Dow anymore. It`s almost becoming the second index to look at. 

 VILES: The week`s big winners were technology stocks: Rambus gained 47 percent, helped by the announcement it will split its stock four for one. Agilent (URL: http://www.agilent-tech.com/) and Lycos (URL: http://www.lycos.com/) also posted sharp gains. 

 Among so-called "old economy" stocks, oil stocks moved higher, led by Chevron. 

 The list of losers was lead by Procter & Gamble, which lost 39 percent and was partly to blame for big losses in Clorox and Colgate-Palmolive. 3Com (URL: http://www.3com.com/) also posted a double-digit loss. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VILES: Typically sharp declines in stocks like those would be limited because value-minded investors would step in and support them. But this market has punished value investors so mercilessly that they`re just not standing up the way they once did -- Willow. 

 BAY: Peter Viles reporting, thank you. 

 VARNEY: Investors didn`t care very much for value or techs today as the week ended with very little real sizzle. The Nasdaq hit another record, on a rally, if you could call it that, though. It was just up over a point and a half. The Nasdaq squandered an 86-point gain as investors cashed in on the recent tech run-up. But it still finished up, at a new high, 5,048. 

 And the Dow was unable to build on two days worth of gains. The blue chips tumbled nearly 82 points and ended back below that 10,000 mark. 

 On the big board, losers outpaced winners by more than a four-to- three margin. There were 74 stocks that hit new highs; 155 stocks hit new  52-week lows. 

 Here`s some of today`s market movers: Goldman Sachs, up nearly 4 1/2. There`s some takeover speculation there. Other financial stocks were higher, including American Express. But Procter & Gamble fell again. 

 BAY: Another profit bombshell from the consumer products sector and another brutal response from Wall Street. Dial, the company behind the soap and other household products, warned first-half earnings will be down by at least 10 percent from a year ago. The stock, already down more than 60 percent from its high, tumbled another 3 1/4. 

 Bill Dorman has more on what`s hurting Dial and the rest of the industry. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 DORMAN (voice-over): Selling soap and other consumer products is simply not as profitable a business as it used to be. 

 HEATHER MAY, MERRILL LYNCH: The environment is much more competitive than it has been historically. With the emerging markets slowing down and becoming more competitive, with an inability to raise prices in the domestic and more mature markets, and with raw materials costs rising, earnings growth is slowing down. 

 DORMAN: Dial is the latest consumer products company to warn that earnings are slowing down even faster than Wall Street`s expectations. Dial blames poor sales of its Armour brand canned meats and a price war in South America`s detergent market. 

 Another factor: high oil prices. Earlier this week, Procter & Gamble executives said energy costs were one reason P&G`s earnings would fall short of expectations. And just as investors punished Procter & Gamble, today it was Dial`s turn. The company`s stock plunged more than 20 percent to a new 52-week low. 

 Other consumer product stocks also fell to new 52-week lows, including Clorox, tumbling more than 11 percent, and Gillette (URL: http://www.gillette.com/) , down 5 percent. Colgate-Palmolive fell 3 percent and is close to its 52-week low. All of these companies fit into what some call the old economy and are struggling with some new realities. 

 MICHELE SLACK, JUPITER COMMUNICATIONS: There is a recognition that, you know, their historical business model does not position them very well to take advantage of the new Internet economy, and so they are trying to figure out how they can kind of get into that space. 

 DORMAN: While the companies are trying to figure that out, investors have become impatient. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 DORMAN: The latest example of that impatience: a shareholder class- action lawsuit filed today against Procter & Gamble, charging the company with making false and misleading statements about its financial condition -- Willow. 

 BAY: So Bill, is that their best hope for these old economy companies, to somehow align themselves, transform themselves into new economy ones, like the automotive industry? 

 DORMAN: Part of a business plan, probably more importantly very important to investor perception, and right now, that`s where the money is. 

 BAY: Bill Dorman, thanks. 

 VARNEY: Another drag on the market came from two telecom stocks that are apparently no longer in play. After days of speculation about whether Deutsche Telekom would make an offer for U.S. West and Qwest, the answer came late yesterday: no. 

 Meantime, the original deal between Qwest and U.S. West is, if anything, it`s in better shape: The FCC has given it the green light. 

 Investors hammered Qwest. The stock sank, down to 51 11/16. U.S. West also down, dropping nearly 5 1/2. Deutsche Telekom was up just about 2 1/2 points. 

 Steve Young now on a takeover drama that for some had an unhappy ending. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 YOUNG (voice-over): Qwest stock reeled after the collapse of its merger talks with Deutsche Telekom. The negotiations stumbled over Qwest`s existing deal to take over U.S. West, and that stock also swooned. So unhappy institutional investors swarmed around Qwest CEO Joseph Nacchio at a conference in New York. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you had did a three-way merger, could you have closed U.S. West first in July or August or September, or would they have to wait a year? 

 JOSEPH NACCHIO, CEO, QWEST: All depends on what the terms were of the merger. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Would you have structured it such that you could have closed that transaction first? 

 NACCHIO: Look, again, you know, you keep saying this as if I`m the one making it. This isn`t me making it. This is someone else talking to (UNINTELLIGIBLE), it`s not me. 

 YOUNG: The sticking point proved to be U.S. West`s refusal to approve a new three-way agreement if it shortchanged its deal with Qwest. 

 NACCHIO: The punch line is the interested party made an offer. That`s where we are today. And U.S. West said they don`t want to do anything. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: At a price. 

 NACCHIO: They said they don`t want to do anything. And the... 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Below the... NACCHIO: And the interested party withdrew. That`s what you got today. 

 ERIC MELLOUL, ARGUS RESEARCH: I would say that it was probably a mistake not to get U.S. West involved sooner, and particularly in this case where, you know, here U.S. West clearly had the upper hand. 

 YOUNG: On the brighter side, the Federal Communications Commission today gave preliminary approval for Qwest to acquire U.S. West, saying local phone competition would be the result. 

 WILLIAM KENNARD, CHAIRMAN, FCC: U.S. West, of course, controls 14 state local markets in the country. So we`re hoping that this marriage will accelerate the process of opening those markets up. 

 YOUNG (on camera): Qwest and Global Crossing (URL: http://www.globalcrossing.bm/) are the last  two major independent telecom companies in the United States. Analysts say they expect to see Joseph Nacchio`s company dancing with another global telecom or even the same suitor down the road. 

 Steve Young, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: With Qwest and U.S. West no longer in the picture, investors wondered who Deutsche Telekom might approach next. Global Crossing gained nearly three today. However, last week, Global Crossing`s new chief, Leo Hindery, told MONEYLINE that a deal with Deutsche Telekom is not in the works. 

 Speculation also swirled around NEXTLINK (URL: http://www.nextlink.net/) . That`s a fiber optic network operator, and that stock was up nearly 15 points. 

 BAY: Up next on MONEYLINE, if you had your money in technology stocks, our next guest says prepare to lose half. 

 VARNEY: Ah. Veteran market watcher Jeremy Siegel joins us when MONEYLINE returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Our next guest sees some chinks in the armor shielding new economy stocks. How, he asks, can high-tech companies be considered immune to higher interest rates when many of their customers come from those old-line manufacturers which have fallen out of favor on Wall Street? The Nasdaq`s stellar rise has been propelled by new economy 

 heavyweights such as Cisco Systems (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) , up 27 percent, and that`s year to date, and we`re only at March. Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) , which has gained 45 percent, and 3Com surging 46 percent. 

 Are these gains built to last? Let`s put that question to Jeremy Siegel, professor of finance at the Wharton School of Business in Philadelphia. 

 Professor, welcome back to MONEYLINE. 

 PROF. JEREMY SIEGEL, WHARTON SCHOOL OF BUSINESS: Good evening. 

 VARNEY: Let`s hit the nail on the head, shall we. Are you flat- out forecasting a huge decline in tech stocks in the very near future? 

 SIEGEL: I think a big decline is very possible. We all know in the last five months we`ve doubled the Nasdaq, and I`ve looked at earnings projections, and I don`t see very much change from where it was five months ago, so I am wondering where all of this change and valuation is coming from, and it can disappear as easily as it came. 

 VARNEY: Are you saying, then, tech stocks are not immune from higher interest rates because tech stocks do their business with old- economy stocks, which will be hurt by higher interest rates? Is that the theory? 

 SIEGEL: There`s tremendous interdependence in the whole economy. There`s no history that a big sector like the tech sector can be independent of the economy. Investment itself is very volatile. In any recession or slowdown, it`s one of the first things to actually come down. 

 VARNEY: But there`s no history for what we`re seeing today on the stock market. We have never been here before, have we? 

 SIEGEL: We have never been here. Unchartered waters makes everyone uncertain. 

 VARNEY: So guide us through it. You`re a professor of finance at Wharton. We`re in unchartered territory. Where is this new economy taking us and this vast shift in capital to the new economy companies? 

 SIEGEL: You know, I think you talked about Cisco. Cisco is a wonderful company. It`s a great company. It`s a super company. I would probably buy it at 80-times earnings, but 150-times earnings? We have six stocks in the top 20 over 100. We have no history of this. Never has stocks been worth over a hundred times earnings once they`ve gotten to the size of these companies. They`re great companies. It`s the price that I am quibbling about now. 

 VARNEY: We could have said that at any point in the last, what, year and a half, maybe even two years. You could have said all of this in the last two years. Nothing has happened. 

 SIEGEL: This has been big upward movement the last five months. Cisco was down at 70, 80, and Oracle and several of the others, and now it seems like investors are eager to buy them at 150 as they were at 75. 

 VARNEY: Is it a casino? 

 SIEGEL: I think there are momentum players, those players that are just, you know, going on the train, and if you say, is the price important? They say I am going to get off before this thing crashes, and that worries me. When everyone thinks they can get off before the thing goes down, there can be some very severe declines. 

 VARNEY: It`s a bubble and the air will come out of it soon and come out of it fast, bottom line? 

 SIEGEL: It will come out. It`s not going to come out probably Monday or Tuesday. but I think we`re going to see some very big declines in the sector this year. 

 VARNEY: So we`ll be watching for Wednesday then, won`t we? Professor Jeremy Siegel from Wharton School of Business in Philadelphia. Thank you so much for joining us, sir. 

 SIEGEL: Thank you. 

 VARNEY: OK, sir. 

 SIEGEL: Here`s what we have for you coming up for you: Europe`s biggest airline sends it boss packing. 

 BAY: And later on, "The Bottom Line," Advanced Micro Devices, and the challenge from its big brother, Intel. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Selectica made a dazzling debut on Wall Street today. The company which makes the software to let businesses sell goods online rose more than fourfold. After going public at $30, Selectica soared to more than $141. 

 Also hitting Wall Street today, OTG Software. It surged more than 37. Other IPOs didn`t fare so well. GT Group Telecom  gained nearly 9 1/2. Homegrocer.com was up a little more than 2. 

 VARNEY: A number of shakeups hit corporate boardrooms today, starting with British Airways. Chief executive Bob Ayling is leaving after a rocky four years at the helm. Europe`s biggest airline is heading for its first full-year loss. The search is on, of course, for Ayling`s replacement. A different kind of changeover at First Union with news that CEO Edward Crutchfield will step down next month due to illness. The company`s president, G. Kennedy Thompson, takes over the top job. And CNET (URL: http://www.cnet.com/) Networks named Shelby Bonnie to run the company after co-founder Halsey Minor resigned. Bonnie said he will continue CNet`s focus on providing Web content. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 SHELBY BONNIE, CEO, CNET NETWORKS: We have an extraordinarily strong management team. We came out of what was an incredibly fourth quarter. We had the highest level of traffic, and the highest level of traffic monitorization. And as we look forward, we see some major opportunities. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY: Cnet slipped more than $1. First Union (URL: http://www.firstunion.com/) rose nearly 2. And British Airways (URL: http://www.british-airways.com/) was up almost 2 points. 

 BAY: Checking some of tonight`s other stock movers, Nextel up more than 6 after Merrill Lynch increased its price target on the wireless stock to $195 a share. 

 Motorola jumped more than 10. Salomon Smith Barney raised its price target to $200 a share and said its recent pullback represents a buying opportunity. 

 And Charles Schwab (URL: http://www.schwab.com/) climbed more than 5. J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) hiked its earnings estimate as well as its price target. It cited strong trading volume at the discount broker. 

 VARNEY: Shares in Rambus went on a tear today, after the developer of next-generation memory chips announced a four-for-one stock split. Rambus shares have risen nearly five-fold over the past month. And today, the stock jumped more than 41 1/2; that`s a 10 percent rise. Other companies that announced splits soared. Quest Software catapulted 51 3/4, after announcing a two-for-one split today. Redback Networks (URL: http://www.redbacknetworks.com/) gained more than 22 after saying on Wednesday it would divide two-for-one. And Interlink (URL: http://www.interlink.com/) Electronics gained 9 1/2 in the wake of Thursday`s announcement of a 3-for-2 split. 

 BAY: In tonight`s sector focus, paper stocks getting a boost from one Wall Street broker. Deutsche Bank (URL: http://www.deutsche-bank.de/) Alex Brown upgraded International Paper (URL: http://www.ipaper.com/) and Georgia-Pacific (URL: http://www.gp.com/) , saying the paper sector has slumped heavily this year despite improved fundamentals. Checking those stocks, International Paper gained nearly 1 1/2. Georgia-Pacific up fractionally. Weyerhaeuser (URL: http://www.weyerhaeuser.com/) jumped nearly 2 3/4. Boise Cascade (URL: http://www.bc.com/) up 3/4. And Mead (URL: http://www.mead.com) rose nearly 1 1/2. 

 VARNEY: Next, fighting words from one chip company whose stock is rising on Wall Street. 

 BAY: We`ll have the bottom tonight on Intel`s chief rival, AMD. That`s when MONEYLINE continues. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Turning now to "The Bottom Line," our regular Friday feature on companies commanding headlines. Tonight, AMD, the computer chip maker that has struggled to step out of the shadow of Intel. Armed with its new Athlon chip, AMD is finally grabbing the spotlight, but can it win over Wall Street? 

 Bruce Francis reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS (voice-over): Advanced Micro Devices (URL: http://www.amd.com/) and Intel slug it out in the chip market as only family members can. AMD and Intel share corporate DNA. Both were founded by executives who broke away from Fairchild Semiconductor (URL: http://www.fairchildsemi.com/) in the mid `60s. At first they were kissing cousins. Intel co-founder, Bob Noise, actually gave AMD founder, Jerry Sanders, $50,000 to start the company. Sanders is one of Silicon Valley`s most colorful figures, known as much for his tough talk on products, such as his new one gigahertz Athlon microprocessor. 

 SANDERS: Athlon is a clean kill. It does everything well. 

 FRANCIS: When it comes to his archrival, Intel, Sanders takes no prisoner. 

 SANDERS: We think Intel plays dirty pool. We think Intel violates antitrust laws. We think Intel violates all sorts of anti-competitive practices. We think that the Intel Inside program is anti-competitive and should be stopped. 

 FRANCIS: Intel says that it competes fairly and within the law. But Intel hasn`t exactly stayed above the fray. Chairman Andy Grove once derided AMD as a copycat, calling it the Milli Vanilli of the chip industry, a reference to the pop duo that lip-synched other singers` vocals. Sanders` bitterness dates back to a series of suits between the two companies in the `80s and `90s, and his rancor is focused on one man -- Grove. 

 SANDERS: Well, I have certainly been disappointed with my relationship with Dr. Grove. Andy and I had at one time been friends. We`d skied together. I would certainly be happy with a rapprochement. He doesn`t have such an interest. And life goes on. 

 FRANCIS: But Sanders now says he`s more focused on Athlon. Sanders says AMD will produce 13 million Athlon chips this year, including some with that eye-popping one-gigahertz speed; that`s 10 times faster than the average AMD PC chip five years ago. 

 But in the fourth quarter of `99 alone, Intel shipped almost 32 million chips, five times AMD`s output. AMD has convinced customers such as Gateway that it has overcome past production problems. 

 DAN NILES, ROBERTSON STEPHENS: Well, AMD has proven themselves to be a great supplier for us, and we don`t believe we`re going to have any problem meeting our customers` demand for the AMD products. 

 FRANCIS: But the Athlon chip is way out of reach for most consumers. Computers equipped with the fast one-gigahertz chip cost about $3,000. During the holiday season, fewer than one percent of retail PCs sold for that much, according to NPD Intellect. 

 So if Athlon is going to be a hit, AMD is going to have to win ore corporate buyers that purchase the majority of PCs. Investors are clearly hoping this is AMD`s year. After year`s of being the poster child for volatile tech stocks, due to some choppy financial performance, AMD`s stock has been charting new highs. But some on Wall Street don`t see a big shift in AMD`s market share. 

 NILES: I think you`ll see, you know, Intel carve out a great, you know, position for themselves in the corporate market and AMD in the consumer market, and you know, maybe moving a little bit into the 

 small-business market. 

 FRANCIS: But Jerry Sanders remains unbowed and believes that AMD can win over the corporate market, or better yet, win it all. 

 SANDERS: AMD`s watchword is never surrender, never give up. You know, we`re going to prevail ultimately, I am sure. 

 FRANCIS: Bruce Francis, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Up next, "Ahead of Curve," just some of what you need to know tonight before the markets open again Monday. 

 BAY: You are watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Wall Street has a new wealth of new information to absorb when trading resumes next week. We`ll get earnings reports from Oracle, Martha Stewart and Nike. The IPO calendar heats up, with a flood of new issues on the docket, including Caldera Systems, which makes software using the Linux (URL: http://www.valinux.com/) operating system. It will  be a busy week on the economic front, with reports on producer and consumer prices, as well as retain sales and housing stocks. 

 BAY: And finally tonight, congratulations are in order for our very own financial editor Myron Kandel. He`s being honored tonight as one of the top 10 business journalists of the century. The award is being given by TJFR, a media industry trade group. Myron is one of CNN`s founding fathers and was instrumental in the creation of CNN Financial News. Before that, he had a long distinguished career in newspapers. Again, congratulations, Myron. 

 VARNEY: I might also add that he hired me almost exactly 20 years ago today, for which I am eternally grateful. Thank you, Myron, for doing that. 

 BAY: Well done, Myron. 

 VARNEY: That, regrettably, is MONEYLINE for this Friday. I`m Stuart Varney. 

 BAY: And I`m Willow Bay. Thanks for joining us. Good night from New York. 

 "CROSSFIRE" is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted  to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only  one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long  as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw3a00070




 Reckitt profits set to dip, merger on track. 

562 words
10 March 2000
11:01
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, March 10 (Reuters) - The newly-merged Anglo-Dutch consumer products group Reckitt Benckiser Plc is set to report a 1999 profits fall next week, but investors will focus ahead with the merger seen well on track to deliver future benefits. 

 Analysts said on Friday that they hope the Benckiser-dominated top management will help to drive through merger benefits and spur earnings growth by improving lacklustre sales at the ex-Reckitt part of the business. 

 Investors will look to be reassured over the group's outlook after the shock profits warning earlier this week from U.S. consumer products giant Procter & Gamble,  which sent many European consumer stocks, including Reckitt, into decline. 

 The merger deal, which was effectively a takeover by Reckitt & Colman of Dutch Benckiser, was completed in December 1999, and created the world's leading household products company. 

 It brought Benckiser and its Calgonit and Finish dishwashing brands together with Reckitt's Lysol and Dettol disinfectants, Harpic lavatory cleaners and Lemsip and Disprin 'flu treatments. 

 The combined group is set to report its first results, with analysts forecasting 1999 pre-tax profits of 285-290 million pounds after 360 million when its reports on March 15. 

 It is expected to announce a 12.7 pence a share final dividend payout to give an unchanged full year shareholder payout of 25.4p, as it promised back in July. Analysts said that results will take into account the merger and include full 12-month figures from both Reckitt and Benckiser, but will be clearly affected by the poor trading seen at Reckitt, which issued three profits warnings within 13 months. 

 Last month, the group said it would squeeze extra benefits from the merger to bring annual savings from both Reckitt's own initial recovery programme and then merger benefits of 160 million pounds, all to be achieved by the end of 2001 at a cost of 220 million pounds, to be charged in the 1999 accounts. 

 Reckitt's first profits warning in November 1998 led to the surprise decision of its Chief Executive, Vernon Sankey, to resign the following February, but this only led to two further profit warnings in March 1999 and December 1999. The Benckiser merger was first announced in July 1999. 

 In the last warning, the group said 1999 Reckitt & Colman pre-tax profits alone would fall to around 165 million pounds, below analysts' forecast of 180-185 million, and this wiped nearly 18 percent off the group's shares. The group's shares have underperformed the FTSE All Share Index by 20 percent and personal care product companies by 1.7 percent over the last 12 months. The shares slipped to a new low this week of 431 pence after the P&G warning. 

 They traded nearly five percent higher or 21 pence at 470p by 1030 GMT, compared to a high of 13 pounds in April 1998. 

 Although the merged group is 59.1 percent owned by Reckitt shareholders and 40.9 percent by Benckiser's, the new company, which is based and listed in London, is now run largely by Benckiser executives led by Chief Executive Bart Becht. ((David Jones, London newsroom, +44 171 542-7972 fax +44 171 583-3769, uk.equities.news@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3a04umk




 Quintiles falls after earnings warning. 

350 words
9 March 2000
19:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 9 (Reuters) - Shares of Quintiles Transnational Corp. dropped more than 19 percent in Thursday afternoon trade, a day after the drug testing firm warned of lower-than-expected earnings for the first half of 2000. 

 Shares of Quintiles were down 4-1/2 at 19-1/16 in heavy afternoon dealings. The stock was one of the largest percentage losers on the Nasdaq stock market. Volume topped 4.49 million shares, more than four times normal. 

 The company, based in Research Triangle Park, N.C., is a contract research organisation (CRO) that specialises in testing drug candidates for large drug companies. 

 Late Thursday, Quintiles said operating earnings for the first half would fall "significantly" below analysts' consensus forecasts, due partly to a recent spree of pharmaceutical mergers that are slowing the hiring of drug testers. It also cited weaker business in Europe. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial, on average, forecast earnings of 32 cents a share for the first quarter and 35 cents a share for the second quarter, excluding the recent sale of the company's ENVOY Corp. unit to Healtheon/WebMD Corp. . 

 Including the sale of ENVOY Corp., analysts forecast 21 cents a share for the first quarter and 24 cents a share for the second quarter. 

 Standard & Poor's equity analyst Herman Saftlas cut his rating on Quintiles to "avoid" from "hold" and reduced his profit forecast for the year, citing the company's warning. 

 Quintiles late Thursday also reiterated that it would take a one-time charge of about $55 million in the first quarter as part of a previously announced restructuring. 

 The company also reiterated plans to give Healtheon/WebMD $100 million over the next 18 months to develop Web-based products and services. 

 The sale of ENVOY to Healtheon/WebMD, announced in January, has yet to close. Quintiles said it expected the deal to be wrapped up by the end of the first quarter or beginning of the second quarter. 

 ((-David Brinkerhoff, New York Health Desk, 212-859-1870)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3904vhb




 FOCUS-Admiral's "gradual recovery" miffs market. 

 By Philippa Moreton 
575 words
9 March 2000
09:52
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, March 9 (Reuters) - Information technology services group Admiral Plc  disappointed the market on Thursday with revelations of only a "gradual recovery" in its full year performance after a profits warning last year. 

 "Considering what went on in the company...we have seen a gradual comeback," Executive Chairman Clay Brendish told Reuters. 

 "There is a positive uplift - when companies start to invest in IT they have to do so slowly. You have to get the requirements right and the build up is positive but gradual," he said. 

 But analysts complained the statement was not positive enough and shares plummetted in early trade. 

 "We need something more punchy than a gradual recovery," said one analyst. 

 "People have ignored the fact that there was a profit warning last May - maybe they were expecting a more positive statement with double digit growth," he said. 

 Shares in the group plunged as much as 13 percent in early trade before creeping back up to trade down 8.5 percent or 167-1/2p at 18.12 pounds by 0930 GMT. 

 Admiral issued a profits warning in May last year, highlighting the vulnerability of IT service companies ahead of the millennium. Nevertherless the share price has tripled since the middle of August as investors have piled into tech stocks regardless. 

 Admiral posted full year pre-tax profits of 25.2 million pounds, before amortisation and goodwill, for the year to December 31, 1999, up six percent on last year, in line with market forecasts. 

 Turnover rose 16 percent to 170.2 million pounds in the year and the group raised its total dividend 15 percent to 4.03p. 

 Dealers said Warburg Dillon Read would cut its forecast year pretax profits for 2000 to 28 million from a current 30 million pounds and next year's figures would be reduced to 33.5 million from 36.5 million. 

 NEW INTERNET DEALS 

 Admiral said it had signed a deal with Baltimore Technology Plc , to utilise Baltimore's Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) technology in integrated secure Internet solutions for clients across all sectors. 

 "It's a natural partnership," said Brendish. "So what we see here is the coming together of two very strong security organisations," he said. 

 The company added it had agreed a deal with Autonomy Systems Ltd, part of Autonomy Corp , to embed its "Active Knowledge" technology into applications enabling clients to offer their customers effective, personalised access to the Web. 

 "The growth that we have will come from organic growth and from the partnerships that we have indicated - and that is the great emphasis for the future," said Brendish. 

 "We are also looking at ways of taking a stake in equity organisations so we can get their technology to our clients," he said. 

 Nonetheless analysts were not impressed with the company's deals strategy. 

 "What does that tell you about Admiral?" asked one analyst. "It just confirms to other people that Autonomy has got the right product," he said. 

 "This is definitely the case," said another analyst. 

 "They have got an Internet security side anyway so these deals came as no surprise - I am just surprised they didn't have WAP in there somewhere!" another analyst said. 

 Further downgrades were expected following a meeting with analysts later this morning. 

 ((London Newsroom +44 171 542 6884, fax +44 171 583 3769, philippa.moreton@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3904psp




BIZ
BRIEFING

1,194 words
8 March 2000
The Denver Post
DNVR
WED1
C-02
English
Copyright © 2000 The Denver Post Corp. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Local

INTEL SEALS DEAL FOR SPRINGS PLANT: Intel closed Tuesday on the 1 million-square-foot Rockwell International Corp. plant in Colorado Springs, where it will employ as many as 1,000 people in its semiconductor business. The company hopes to start production by the end of the year on flash chips - computer chips that have memory even when the power is off - for electronic products such as cell phones. The purchase price was not disclosed, but some estimate the plant sold for less thanthe $60 million asking price. Cushman & Wakefield brokers Candis Hewitt and Rick Hubina handled the deal. (The Denver Post)

MILLER LANDS AMSTERDAM HOTEL: Miller Global Properties LLC said Tuesday it acquired a 279-room hotel in Amsterdam's Park Schiphol-Rijk adjacent to Europe's third-largest airport, Schiphol International. The Radisson SAS Hotel Amsterdam Airport is near one of Europe's fastest-growing business parks. Terms were not disclosed. Miller Global is a partnership between Miller Properties Group of Denver and Global Holdings Inc. of New York and London. (The Denver Post)

RMI EYES SHARE SALE: RMI.NET Inc., an Internet and phone-service provider, may sell shares of its Web-consulting business to the public as the company tries to raise funds and burnish its image with investors, its chief executive said. Douglas Hanson, also the chairman, president and largest shareholder of the company, declined to provide a timeline for selling shares in the business, which had $1 million in third-quarter revenue. (Bloomberg)

GOLDEN COMPANY BOUGHT: Synovus Financial Corp. said it will acquire Golden-based ProCard Inc. for an undisclosed amount in a deal that could strengthen the corporation's position in the business-to-business online marketplace. The 10-year-old privately held ProCard works with banks that issue Visa and MasterCard, providing the software and Internet technology to help corporations monitor and manage their commercial purchasing, travel and fleet accounts. (AP)

ATRIX LICENSES DRUG SYSTEM: Atrix Laboratories Inc. announced Tuesday that it has licensed one of its transmucosal drug-delivery systems to an undisclosed marketing partner for oral care applications. Under the terms of this agreement, the partner will fund development and commercialization of products based on the technology, and pay a royalty on sales to Fort Collins-based Atrix for the life of the patent. The first product is expected to be launched in the second half of thisyear.(The Denver Post)

STEAMBOAT OPERATOR POSTS LOSS: American Skiing Co., operator of Steamboat Ski Resort, posted a $15.1 million loss for the second quarter ending Jan. 30, bringing net losses for the first six months of its fiscal year to $43.1 million, officials said Tuesday. For the second quarter, the net loss was 50 cents per share. American Skiing had lost $10.8 million, or 36 cents per share, in the second quarter of the previous year. The company was hurt by warm weather and poor snowfallearly in the quarter this ski season, as well as a downturn related to year 2000 computer concerns. (AP)

EINSTEIN SHARES DE-LISTED: Einstein/Noah Bagel Corp. announced Tuesday that Nasdaq de-listed its stock from the Nasdaq Small Cap Market. The company's common stock will be eligible for trading on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. Currently, there are 539 Einstein/Noah retail bagel stores in 29 states and the District of Columbia operating under the Einstein Bros. Bagels and Noah's New York Bagels brand names. (The Denver Post)

DATA SERVICES CENTER EXPANDS: Inflow, a provider of hosting and Internet services for e-commerce companies, announced Tuesday the opening of its second Denver data network exchange facility. The new facility will provide Denver-area businesses with secure, reliable data center services. (The Denver Post)

SPRINGS SOFTWARE FIRM TO ACQUIRE PROVIDER: GoldMine Software Corp. of Colorado Springs announced Tuesday its intent to acquire Corporate Computer Center, one of GoldMine's service providers. With the acquisition, GoldMine will create a dealerwide training program aimed at ensuring consistent and reliable service and support practices at its 1,500 resellers worldwide. (The Denver Post)

Nation/World

GIGAHERTZ PROCESSOR FOR SALE: The whiz-bang computer age just got even faster. The first gigahertz processor hit the market this week, crunching information at 1,000 megahertz, or 1 billion bits of information per second - a speed many engineers thought impossible just a decade ago. Advanced Micro Devices Inc. says its Athlon chip will make computers 10 times faster than just six years ago, paving the way for speedier software and games. (AP)

MCI TESTS WIRELESS INTERNET: MCI WorldCom Inc. said it's testing a new high-speed wireless Internet service in three cities to reach customers neglected by cable providers and local-telephone companies. The No. 2 U.S. long-distance company is doing the trials in Jackson, Miss.; Baton Rouge, La.; and Memphis. The tests use airwaves reserved for wireless communications services to offer online access that is at least five times faster than today's best telephone modems. (Bloomberg)

CIGNA TO PAY $9 MILLION SETTLEMENT: Insurer Cigna Corp. agreed Tuesday to pay the federal government nearly $9 million to settle allegations it overbilled the Health Care Financing Administration by approximately that amount in a case initiated by a Cigna employee. Philadelphia-based Cigna denied any wrongdoing or liability in the case. Whistleblower Peter Scott, a 40-year Cigna employee, will receive $840,000 of the $8,988,500 settlement for his part in the prosecution,accordingto his lawyer. (AP)

PROCTER & GAMBLE STOCKS TUMBLE: Procter & Gamble Co. shares plunged 31 percent, erasing $36 billion in value, after the biggest U.S. maker of household goods said fiscal third-quarter profit will fall because of a rise in raw-materials costs. Shares of the maker of Tide detergent and Crest toothpaste fell $27.438 to $60, a three-year low, on the New York Stock Exchange. The warning comes just a week after the company assured investors that it would meet earnings and sales goals.(Bloomberg)

GERMAN BANKS AGAIN TALK OF UNION: Deutsche Bank AG, Europe's biggest bank, and its rival, Dresdner Bank AG, Germany's No. 3 lender, are in talks to form the world's biggest bank, the Financial Times reported. A Deutsche Bank spokesman said the two German banks are holding talks with the aim of a "wide-ranging cooperation," the newspaper said. A merger would create a bank with total assets of $1.23 trillion. Deutsche spokesmen in Frankfurt couldn't be reached for comment. The twobankshave been in talks before, plans which broke down last October. (Bloomberg)

PESO SOARS ON POSITIVE REPORT: A top credit-rating firm gave Mexico a strong vote of confidence Tuesday in a move that will likely increase foreign investment and make it cheaper for Mexican companies to borrow money. The peso soared, interest rates fell and stocks rose. Moody's Investors Service upgraded Mexico's credit rating from junk to investment grade, saying it was confident Mexico could pay back its foreign debt. Chile had been the only Latin American country with such agrade since Colombia's credit rating was cut last year. (AP)

Document DNVR000020150821dw3800qce




BIZ
Dow suffers 374-point free fall P&G profit -dive  warning  frightens investors

Eileen Glanton The Associated Press   
806 words
8 March 2000
The Denver Post
DNVR
WED1
C-01
English
Copyright © 2000 The Denver Post Corp. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

NEW YORK - Prices plunged Tuesday on Wall Street, sending the Dow Jones industrials down nearly 375 points, after Procter & Gamble shocked investors with a warning that its profits will drop far below expectations. The selling spilled over to usually buoyant high-tech stocks and cut short the Nasdaq composite's first foray past 5,000.

The Dow fell 374.47 to close at 9,796.03, its fourth-biggest one-day point drop and its lowest close since March 31, 1999. The blue chips were off more than 400 points in late trading before edging higher just before the close.

The Nasdaq, which soared more than 100 points to 5,006.78 in early trading, turned lower amid profit-taking and computer-programmed selling that kicked in at the 5,000 mark. The Nasdaq finished down 57.01 at 4,847.84.

Broader stock indicators also fell sharply. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 35.66 to 1,355.62, and the Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 6.17 to 595.47.

Blue-chip stocks sank after consumer-products maker Procter & Gamble issued a dramatic warning, saying it expects fiscal third-quarter earnings of 64 or 65 cents per share, well below the 78 cents per share that Wall Street analysts were expecting. The company, whose products include Pamper diapers and Tide detergent, also said profits would be off for the entire second half of its year.

The company blamed higher costs for oil and pulp, raw materials critical in the manufacture of many of its products. Procter & Gamble's stock tumbled 25.438 to 62, accounting for nearly 130 points of the Dow's decline.

The news unnerved investors already anxious about profits at blue-chip and industrial companies, especially with most big corporations scheduled to report first-quarter earnings next month. The rest of March is likely to be particularly nerve-racking for Wall Street because it is during the last few weeks of a quarter that companies issue warnings about disappointing profits.

Richard McCabe, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch, said P&G's struggles with rising costs of materials might have sparked worries that inflation is beginning to accelerate at the most basic levels of the economy.

"You need their soap and shampoo no matter what the economy is doing," McCabe said. Yet those companies will be unable to maintain or increase profits if the cost of oil and other materials continues to escalate, he said.

Merrill Lynch downgraded its ratings on the entire consumer products sector, depressing stocks including Colgate Palmolive and Kimberly Clark. Those companies have not issued any warnings about earnings, but Colgate Palmolive fell 6.063 to 46.75, and Kimberly Clark fell 5.25 to 45.375.

Other losers in the Dow included American Express, down 2.875 to 126.375, and Coca-Cola, off 1.438 at 47.563.

Only Microsoft and Exxon Mobil contained the Dow's losses. Microsoft rose 2.25 to 92.875 following a positive report from a Goldman Sachs analyst, while Exxon Mobil rose 8.063 to 81, a beneficiary of the latest rise in oil prices.

Other oil stocks also closed higher; Chevron rose 7 to 81, and Texaco gained 3.625 to 50.25.

With the Dow spiraling lower, investors paid little note to the Nasdaq's first trip past 5,000. The technology-dominated index crossed 5,000 just over two months after its first close above 4,000.

In a bet that technology stocks are best prepared to thrive even if the Federal Reserve continues raising interest rates this year, investors have been buying those shares at the expense of nearly every other corner of the market.

The Nasdaq succumbed during the afternoon. Still, the Nasdaq is up about 19 percent in the year to date, compared with a loss of about 15 percent for the Dow.

Analysts said the Nasdaq's big gains have left it vulnerable to investors eager to collect some profits.

"The Nasdaq has a history of having trouble penetrating major new barriers," said Robert Stovall of Prudential Securities. "There's a strong impulse to take profits because it seems unbelievable that this thing can keep running."

The market's weakness surprised some analysts who had expected stocks to rally on news Tuesday of improved productivity by American workers. Economists consider healthy productivity gains the key to sustaining economic growth without giving rise to inflation.

"Higher productivity is an unmitigated good for the economy," said Stan Shipley, senior economist at Merrill Lynch, noting that the rise in productivity came along with a drop in labor costs.

"Inflation just does not emerge from that mix," Shipley said.

Document DNVR000020150821dw3800qcb




 Business 
 Dow plunges nearly 375 points; P&G falls 31% as  profit warning  spurs sell-off 

 Eileen Glanton 
ASSOCIATED PRESS
725 words
8 March 2000
San Antonio Express-News
SAEN
Metro
01E
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 San Antonio Express-News. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK - Wall Street prices plummeted Tuesday, sending the Dow Jones industrials down almost 375 points, after Procter & Gamble shocked investors with a warning that its profits will drop far below expectations. The selling spilled over to usually buoyant high-tech stocks, and cut short the Nasdaq composite's first foray past 5,000. 

 The Dow fell 374.47 to close at 9,796.03, its fourth-biggest one-day point drop and its lowest close since March 31, 1999. The blue chips were off more than 400 points in late trading before edging higher just before the close. 

 The Nasdaq, which soared more than 100 points to 5,006.78 in early trading, turned lower amid profit-taking and computer-programmed selling that kicked in at the 5,000 mark. The Nasdaq finished down 57.01 at 4,847.84. 

 Broader stock indicators also fell sharply. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 35.66 to 1,355.62, and the Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 6.17 to 595.47. 

 Blue-chip stocks sank after consumer products maker Procter & Gamble issued a dramatic warning, saying it expects fiscal third-quarter earnings of 64 or 65 cents per share, well below the 78 cents per share Wall Street analysts were expecting. The company, whose products include Pampers diapers and Tide detergent, also said profits would be off for the entire second half of its fiscal year. 

 The company blamed higher costs for oil and pulp, raw materials critical in the manufacture of many of its products. Procter & Gamble's stock tumbled 273/8 to 601/16, accounting for nearly 140 points of the Dow's decline. 

 The news unnerved investors already anxious about profits at blue-chip and industrial companies, especially with most big corporations scheduled to report first-quarter earnings next month. 

 Richard McCabe, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch, said P&G's struggles with rising costs of materials might have sparked worries that inflation is starting to accelerate at the economy's most basic levels. 

 "You need their soap and shampoo no matter what the economy is doing," McCabe said. 

 Merrill Lynch downgraded its ratings on the entire consumer products sector, depressing stocks including Colgate Palmolive and Kimberly Clark. Those companies haven't issued earnings warnings, but Colgate Palmolive fell 61/16 to 463/4 and Kimberly Clark fell 51/4 to 453/8. 

 San Antonio-based Clear Channel Communications Inc. took a beating for the second day in a row. The broadcasting and billboard company's stock price plunged $8 to $60 in Tuesday trading. That was on top of Monday's loss of $4.38 per share. 

 "The whole radio sector is off" because of worries of a recession causing a reduction in advertising spending, said Timothy Wallace, an analyst with Banc of America Securities in New York. 

 "The perception does not match the reality," he said. "(The year) 2000 will be a very strong year for the radio industry." 

 Other losers in the Dow included American Express, down 27/8 to 1263/8 and Coca-Cola, off 25/16 at 4611/16. 

 Only Microsoft and Exxon Mobil contained the Dow's losses. Microsoft rose 21/4 to 927/8 after a positive report from a Goldman Sachs analyst, while Exxon Mobil rose 79/16 to 801/2, a beneficiary of the latest rise in oil prices. 

 The Nasdaq stocks first withstood the selling in the rest of the market Tuesday but succumbed during the afternoon. Still, the Nasdaq is still up about 19 percent this year, compared with a loss of about 15 percent for the Dow. 

 Analysts said the Nasdaq's incredible gains have left it vulnerable to investors eager to collect profits. 

 "The Nasdaq has a history of having trouble penetrating major new barriers," said Robert Stovall, market analyst at Prudential Securities. "There's a strong impulse to take profits because it seems unbelievable that this thing can keep running." 

 Express-News Business Writer Travis Poling contributed to this report. 

 PHOTO: OSAMU HONDA/Associated Press A trader seems to be feeling the pain on the New York Stock Exchange floor Tuesday. The Dow Jones industrials tumbled nearly 375 points. 

Document saen000020010813dw38006l3




 Market Report - Energy sector tumbles as price pressure rises. 

 By Stephen Foley. 
1,191 words
8 March 2000
The Independent - London
IND
20
English
(c) 2000 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way.

 PROFIT WARNINGS across the Atlantic sapped the stock market, with electricity shares generating much of the damage on this side of the water. PowerGen led the power pack lower with a 14.4 per cent fall, taking it down to 367.75p and crashing out of the FTSE 100 index. It ended the day with a market capitalisation of #2.39bn - putting it in the record list of nine old-economy companies to be kicked out of the index. 

 National Power (NP) closed at 328.5p, down 26p, and ScottishPower fell 23.5p to 450.5p. 

 Two US groups, Edison International and Entergy have warned that falling electricity prices will hit their UK operations, adding to British Energy's veiled profit warning earlier this week. Investment house Goldman Sachs cut back its profit estimates for British Energy, which closed 27.5p down at 212.75p. 

 NP, which is splitting itself into two stand-alone companies, promised that it would not join the growing list of power firms to issue profits warnings, as regulatory pressure and increasing competition has pushed wholesale electricity prices down 15 per cent in a month. 

 "We foresaw the price falls and this is not outside our expectations by any means," NP said. 

 On the other side of the energy industry, oil and gas stocks fared much better, as the price of crude oil shot up and investment house Warburg Dillon Read predicted there would be more rises to come. Shell gained 14p to 458p in heavy turnover, as did BP Amoco, which closed at 505.5, up 12p. BG Group made the biggest gains, with a rise of more than 5 per cent, taking it to 301.25p. 

 Media stocks also performed strongly as the sector was again re-rated in light of yesterday's positive results from Pearson. There were index-defying leaps from the Daily Mail & General Trust, up 98p to 1298p, and Carlton Communications. That rose 64.5p to 900.5p. as traders took note of Commerzbank's new "buy" recommendation. 

 But a day and a half of Wall Street tumbles brought the UK index down with it, and by the close the FTSE 100 was off 101.3 at 6466.5. Procter & Gamble's profits warning pushed the Dow Jones Industrial Average back down through 10,000 in early trading, adding to London's woes. 

 The FTSE 100 index fallers were led all day by Dixons, which collapsed 17 per cent to 1,231p as the shockwaves from AltaVista's near-free internet-for-life offer continued to knock its shares and those of its baby Freeserve, which fell 167.25p to 712.25p. 

 But with adroit timing, Dixons suspended its shares at the market close to allow for its restructuring. It said in January that it is splitting itself into two holding companies, one for retail and property business and one for its Freeserve holding, under the common ownership of a new firm. It promised to return to the market first thing today as New Dixons. 

 Compass Group rose on news of a new $2bn contract deal from IBM. Two investment houses also came out with positive notes on the stock, proving that taking analysts on a day trip to see its operations in Berlin on Monday was money well spent. Lehman Brothers notched up their rating to outperform, saying Compass is well placed to exploit a growing German market. 

 The mid-cap index closed at 6,789.3, off 49.6p, with Celltech among those leading the way down, falling 229p to 1,614p. The health group did its best to avoid elevation to the FTSE 100 as dealers took profits, but it will still be in the top division later this month. 

 Somerfield reversed some of its gains of the previous day, down 5 per cent at 76p, while Manchester United scored a hefty 12.7 per cent rise, taking it to 369p after Warburg Dillon Read has, it's thought, set a 500p target. 

 Among the small caps, Cambridge Antibody Technology had another great day, with the market's delight at a #100m open offer taking the shares 750p higher to 4,887.5p. Tadpole Technology also broke through what had seemed like a 55p ceiling, ending up 14.9 per cent at 63.75p as rumours saw the company trying to extend its portable workstations technology beyond the utilities sector. 

 The management at OEM, a little property investment shell, spent the day damping down a red-hot share price. Anonymous postings on an internet bulletin board have been suggesting the shares are about to be suspended before coming back at an enormous premium. They shot up for the sixth day in a row and touched 102.5p before crumbling to 62.5p, down 10.5p. OEM said it knew of no reason for the movements and crushed hopes of a reverse takeover by an internet venture. 

 In AIM, there were signs that retail appetite for internet floats was turning more discerning. Tornado Group, a Net-based music wholesaler operating in the promising business-to-business sector, promptly soared to 100 per cent premium, up to 300p from an issue price of 150p. But e-district.net, an online "village" of chatrooms and games sites, was much less favoured, rising just 5p above its #1.95p issue price. 

 There were also whispers that Staffware, the webflow solutions company, would be making a few headline-grabbing announcements with its results today. It will give a timetable for full listing on TechMARK, and may throw in a big deal or two. It closed up more than 10 per cent at 4,175p. 

 And the struggling Zimbabwean goldminer, African Gold, was up 2p to a year high of 7.5p, on vague rumours it was planning a reverse takeover. Cooley, an Irish whiskey distillery, was one name in the frame. 

 SEAQ VOLUME: 155,620 

 SEAQ TRADES: 2.2bn 

 GILTS INDEX: 103.69 +0.20 

 s. foley@btinternet.co.uk 

 RADAMEC, the defence and television systems company, is selling the site of its Chertsey headquarters for "substantially more" than the property's #650,000 book value. 

 Radamec and its neighbours are shipping out of Bridge Wharf in favour of leased accommodation, as developers move in. The rumour mill has it that its five acres of prime Surrey riverside might bring in even more than Radamec's #5.7m market capitalisation. 

 After yesterday's 2.5p rise to 42.5p, the shares still have some way to catch up. 

 SOMETHING SINISTER may be stirring among the small-caps, with little Stanelco once again the subject of hushed speculation. The fibre optics maker, which has 666 million shares in issue, is being bought up by the Heart of Darkness Trust as director Howard White moves his stake into his new trust. Why? The latest whisper - and there have been many - is that the acquisitve continental giant Deutsche Telekom is about to take a stake. Some even say DT may like it so much, it will buy the whole company. 

Document ind0000020010811dw3800p6m




MARKET WATCH
 Report on Business Column 
 Old Economy loses another round 

 STEPHEN NORTHFIELD 
856 words
8 March 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B14
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 You could have gleaned just about anything you ever wanted to know about this market before lunch yesterday. 

 We had the Nasdaq breach 5,000 for the first time (symbolic triumph of the New Economy), the Dow crack back through 10,000 (symbolic decline of the Old Economy) just as the latest economic numbers were showing astonishing productivity gains in the United States (how the New Economy is helping to keep the Old Economy -- and the market -- from blowing up). 

 On any other day, investors would have made hay over the revised U.S. productivity numbers, which showed that worker efficiency increased at a rate of 6.4 per cent during the final three months of 1999, the best spurt since 1992. That's well ahead of the 5-per-cent estimate of a month ago. 

 Productivity is the safety value that's keeping the U.S. economy from overheating. With the U.S. economy in overdrive -- 6.9-per-cent growth in the fourth quarter -- the ability of companies to produce more from less is the slack that's keeping a lid on inflation. The exponential proliferation of technology is widely credited for the leaps in productivity in recent years. 

 On top of the wonderful productivity numbers, the market had yet another mega-deal to get worked up over: Internet security software outfit VeriSign Inc.'s all-stock $21-billion (U.S.) purchase of Network Solutions. 

 The problem yesterday was that while the New Economy was doing its razzle-dazzle thing, the Old Economy decided to play the spoiler. 

 Procter & Gamble,one of those well-run, enviably profitable consumer Goliaths that tech-crazed investors contemptuously ignore, tossed a spanner in the works by issuing a warning that third-quarter profit will drop by 10 per cent or so from year-earlier results. The stock plunged $27.50 to $59.93, scything about $36-billion off the company's market valuation and accounting for the bulk of the Dow's losses. 

 What was interesting to note about the Procter warning -- besides the vicious market response -- was the decidedly Old Economy reasons for the profit shortfall: higher costs for pulp and petroleum-based raw materials and increased manufacturing and inventory costs in Europe. 

 It's a reminder that, in spite of all the cheerleading about new paradigms, companies outside the tech sector still operate according to the old paradigm -- things cost money to make and sooner or later, robust economic growth, intensifying competition and rising interest rates are going to put the pinch on profits. 

 Of course, the market already knows that, which is why investors have been exiting Dow stocks all year and flinging their cash into the Nasdaq. It's not that investors are oblivious to the impact of rising rates and the threat of an elongated tightening by the U.S. Federal Reserve Board, it's just that they've decided to discount that selectively in the market. In other words, club the blue chips senseless, while giving the profit-light technology stocks a total waiver. There are no small number of market watchers, mostly the ones who've been around a few years, who think this dichotomy can't last. 

 The market doesn't care much for what the grumpy alarmists think. The numbers tell the tale. The $21-billion price tag being placed on Network Solutions is for a company that generated about $220-million in revenue last year and earned $26.9-million. Procter & Gamble, with trailing revenue and earnings of $39.2-billion and $3.7-billion respectively, is being valued at about $79-billion. In other words, Procter & Gamble is deemed to be worth about four times what Network Solutions is, even though the consumer giant generates about 180 times the revenue and 140 times the profit. 

 Madness? Of course it is. But it's a madness tempered with reason. Investors' rationale is simple: We want growth, and we'll pay almost anything to get it. 

 Procter & Gamble has been a cash-generating machine over the years, but it's hardly a sexy growth story. Revenue growth has limped along over the past five years, topping 10 per cent just once, in fiscal 1995. Year-over-year earnings have been better, but even here the numbers have been weakening. 

 The company said yesterday that it expects earnings to rise 13 to 15 per cent on the backs of a 6- to 8-per-cent rise in sales. By contrast, Network Solutions has been a rocket, with sales and profits growing annually at better than 100 per cent over the past few years. 

 Growth -- and the more blue sky the better -- is all the market seems to want these days. Cheap or not, the Dow stocks simply can't compete for the attention of investors in a world where slow-but-steady just doesn't cut it any more. Stephen Northfield is Investment Editor. Market Watch readers can reach him at 416-585-5454, or send e-mail to snorthfield@globeandmail.ca 

Document glob000020010806dw3800bkp




 Financial Post Investing 
 P&G embodies old-line stocks' woes with 31% slump: Surprise  profit warning : Accounts for 136 of Dow's 374-point plunge 

 William Hanley 
Financial Post
656 words
8 March 2000
National Post
FINP
National !@SERIES=
D01 / Front
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 Financial Post from National Post (formerly The Financial Post Company). All rights reserved. 

 Procter & Gamble Co.'s stock collapse yesterday was just the latest blue chip on the venerable Dow Jones industrial average to take a beating. 

 The 31%-tumble in the consumer products giant's stock pushed it to the bottom of the 30 Dow stocks in terms of performance this year. But P&G has plenty of company in the doghouse, with 24 other Dow members sitting on negative returns in 2000. 

 The Dow -- which plunged 374.47 points to 9796.03 yesterday -- is now 16.4% off its record high, reached on Jan. 14, and only 371 points higher than the Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite. Last August, the Dow was more than 4,000 points ahead of the TSE. 

 The market wiped $35-billion of shareholder value off P&G shares after the company shocked Wall Street with a profit warning just a week after it insisted earnings and sales goals would be met. (All figures are in U.S. dollars.) 

 The shares (PG/NYSE) closed at $60, off $27 7/16, and have been slashed roughly in half since January when P&G, biggest seller of household products in the United States, abandoned a bid to revive sales and earnings by purchasing two big drugmakers. 

 One of the old economy stocks packing the Dow, P&G yesterday accounted for 136 points of the blue-chip index's decline. The Dow is off 14.8% this year, the victim of widespread selling of old-line big names as investors chase after technology, media and telecommunications issues and drive the Nasdaq composite ever higher. 

 Cincinnati-based P&G said its fiscal third-quarter earnings will fall 10% to 11% from a year earlier, missing its forecast for a gain of 7% to 9%. Profit will rise in the fourth quarter, the company said, though less than projected. 

 While analysts said the earnings warning brought into question the credibility of P&G management, the sell-off, which also cut the prices of other high-profile consumer product companies, was overdone. 

 "This shows a frightening lack of liquidity when a stock like Procter can be sold off so brutally," said one analyst. "This is going to disturb the investment community because Procter is a core holding in just about every portfolio." 

 Three analysts who follow P&G put out "buy" ratings on the stock and Bloomberg records show no "sell" calls. Yet the consensus is that it will take a long time to repair the damage done to the stock and the company's reputation on Wall Street. 

 P&G has company-specific problems, but at the same time it has become a lightning rod amid the general disenchantment with the old-line Dow stocks. Many investors reckon that the growth technology stocks will be better able to withstand the higher interest rates in the pipeline than the value issues. 

 Indeed, some people believe the sagging fortunes of the Dow stocks such as P&G are signalling that the U.S. economy may be in for a hard landing in the wake of the Federal Reserve's tightening of monetary policy this year and last. 

 "While tech stocks move from record to record, the rest of the S&P 500 is down by 18% since peaking in May," notes Sam Brady of Merrill Lynch & Co. 

 "The basic materials area is down by 23%, consumer cyclicals are down by 24%, financials are down by 27%, and transports are down by 39%. That is a hard landing forecast for the U.S. economy." 

 Profits of the technology companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 index are forecast to rise 29% -- well ahead of the average 21% increase. 

Document finp000020010805dw38005q8




 Financial Post 
 Procter & Gamble stock plummets on  profit warning : Drags down DJ index: Consumer products giant cites rising oil, pulp and paper costs 

 Steve Matthews 
Bloomberg News
698 words
8 March 2000
National Post
FINP
National !@SERIES=
C13
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 Financial Post from National Post (formerly The Financial Post Company). All rights reserved. 

 CINCINNATI - Procter & Gamble Co. shares plunged by a third, wiping out $40-billion in value, after the biggest U.S. maker of household goods said fiscal third-quarter profit will fall because raw materials costs surged (all figures in U.S. dollars). 

 The P&G news sent the Dow Jones industrial average reeling on speculation that higher interest rates would start to put a dent in the earnings of "old economy" stocks. 

 Shares of the maker of Tide detergent, Mr. Clean cleaner, Bounty paper towels and Crest toothpaste fell $27 7/16, or 31%, to close at $60. P&G earlier dropped to a three-year low of $57 1/4 and accounted for almost half the decline in the Dow Jones industrial average, which fell 374.47, or 3.68%, to 9796.03. 

 Since taking over a year ago, Durk Jager, chief executive, has tried to remake the 163-year-old company by slashing 15,000 jobs, bringing out new products and considering the purchase of two big drugmakers. P&G now is getting hurt by rising costs for oil and the pulp used in paper towels and tissues, and can't raise prices fast enough because of competition with rivals such as Unilever. 

 "Just when they finally got the sales problem fixed, the cost side comes back to get us," said Daniel Popowics, analyst with Fifth Third Bank, which owns 11 million shares. "The company needs to put both together." 

 Procter & Gamble said fiscal third-quarter earnings will fall 10% to 11% from a year earlier, rather than gain 7% to 9% as it had forecast. Profit will rise in the fourth quarter, though less than projected. 

 The drop in the Cincinnati-based company's stock was the biggest in one day in at least two decades, and pulled down the shares of other consumer-products companies. 

 Mr. Jager blamed the shortfall on rising pulp costs, competition in Latin America and higher-than-expected manufacturing expenses in Europe. Oil prices have reached nine-year highs. 

 Pulp prices have jumped 30% during the past year because of higher demand in Asia, Europe and North America. The company has announced a price increase to retailers on Bounty towels and Charmin tissue, which takes effect in April -- too late to help the current quarter. 

 "I am deeply disappointed we have not made more progress in driving profit growth," said Mr. Jager. 

 Procter & Gamble last year said it would cut 15,000 jobs worldwide and close plants to cut costs. Mr. Jager wants to use the $900-million in annual savings to help develop new products and spur sales growth. Sales in the fiscal second quarter rose the most in four years. Company officials have repeatedly assured investors that the quarter was in line with forecasts. 

 "The damning part about it this time is that they were at the Merrill Lynch consumer conference last week and told the audience the quarter was on track," said Rimas Milaitis, manager of the Strong Growth & Income Fund, who sold all his P&G shares today. "It turns out it was not." 

 The shares have fallen by half since January -- losing $79-billion in value -- as P&G began and then abandoned talks to buy drugmakers Warner-Lambert Co. and American Home Products Corp. "This starts to raise the question of credibility for management," said Virginia Farnsworth, analyst and portfolio manager at Mellon Private Asset Management, which holds 12 million shares. 

 P&G was expected to earn 78 cents a share in the quarter ending this month and $3.21 in the year ending in June. It earned 72 cents in last year's third quarter. 

 Black & White Photo: Procter & Gamble / Procter & Gamble could use a little of Mr. Clean's sparkle for its third-quarter results, which show the company mired in soaring costs while trying to keep its own prices in line with its competitors.; Black & White Photo: Durk Jager 

Document finp000020010805dw38005n3




 FFBN Financials Wrap: Financials Drop In Tandem With  Market 

858 words
8 March 2000
13:30
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS BUSINESS NEWS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
    (This market wrap was originally published Tuesday evening.)



        WASHINGTON (FFBN) - Financial stocks participated in the general
market decline Tuesday, ending the day largely lower.
        The Federal Filings Diversified Financial Index closed down 3.2%,
or 12,661.1, to 382,062.8, while our Banking Index lost 3.8%, or 14,042, to
355,381.7.
        KeyCorp was a big percentage loser, ending down 7.9%, or 1 3/8, at
17 3/8.  Huntington Bancshares Inc. shed 6.7%, or 1 5/16, to 19 1/2.
        Even securities brokers, which have traded higher in recent days on
a strong first quarter profit outlook, failed to shrug off the general
market worries.  Market watchers indicated that investors were selling
shares because of the uncertainty of market conditions.  In addition,
consumer issues stumbled after a profit warning from Procter & Gamble.
        Among brokers, Bear Stearns lost 5.3%, or 2 1/4, to close at 42
3/8, while Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. shed 4.8%, or 4, to close at 83
13/16.
        The Federal Filings Brokerage Index lost 1%, or 2,622.8, to close
at 258,330.1.
        The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 374.47, or 3.68%, to 9,796.03
and the S&P 500-Stock Index dropped 35.66, or 2.56%, to 1,355.62.  The
Nasdaq Composite Index closed Tuesday's session at 4847.84, down 57.01, or
1.16%.  The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond rose to 6.148% from 6.144%
late Monday.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                              Net     Pct    EPS    EPS
CONSECO INC.                        Close   Change  Change   00E    01E
                                    13 1/4  -11/16   -5.2% $2.75  $3.36
Conseco Inc. said it is confident it will exceed its 15% growth target for
the first quarter.  The company indicated it is comfortable with current
First Call/Thomson Financial consensus estimates for both the first quarter
and full-year periods.  A First Call/Thomson Financial survey of seven
analysts produced a mean earnings estimate of 60 cents a share for the
company's first quarter. A survey of 13 analysts produced a mean earnings
estimate of $2.75 for the company's full-year period.
                                             Net     Pct     EPS    EPS
FIRSTAR CORP.                       Close   Change  Change   00E    01E
                                  18 5/16   -15/16   -5.1% $1.53  $1.76
Merrill Lynch raised its rating on Firstar Corp. to "near-term accumulate"
from "near-term neutral."  The brokerage firm also retained its "long-term
buy" rating.
                                                Net     Pct    EPS    EPS
COMMUNITY FINANCIAL CORP.             Close   Change  Change   00E    01E
                                    10 1/16    -1/16   -0.6%   N/A    N/A
Community Financial Corp. said its board has adopted a strategic plan with
initiatives to enhance shareholder value.  The plan will include a
significant stock repurchase program, consolidation of the charters of the
company's bank units and the sale of some lower-yielding securities.
Community Financial said it will decrease residential lending to focus on
construction, agricultural and commercial real estate loans.
                                                Net     Pct    EPS    EPS
COMMERCIAL NATIONAL FINANCIAL CORP.   Close   Change  Change   00E    01E
                                         15   -13/16   -5.1%   N/A    N/A
Commercial National Financial Corp. revised its 1999 net income lower to
$3,203,605, or 90 cents a share, from the previously announced $4,932,611,
or $1.38 a share, because the company charged off loans to a major
commercial account. the company said it took the charge-off because of a
substantial decline in the value of collateral pledged to support the loans
of a single customer, reducing the prospect of receiving full repayment of
the loans.
=======================================================================
                THE FEDERAL FILINGS FINANCIALS INDEXES
=======================================================================
INDEX                            CLOSE     NET CH    PCT CH    YTD CH
=======================================================================
BANKS                        355,381.7  -14,040.0     -3.8%    -15.6%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Money-Center Banks           188,546.1   -4,136.0     -2.1%     -9.5%
Central                      136,444.5   -6,212.9     -4.4%    -19.8%
Eastern                      109,963.2   -4,576.2     -4.0%      3.1%
Southern                      94,109.8   -2,540.7     -2.6%    -23.1%
Western                       14,864.2     -710.3     -4.6%    -32.2%
=======================================================================
THRIFTS                       30,852.5     -615.1     -2.0%    -17.8%
=======================================================================
INSURANCE                    288,169.8   -9,359.0     -3.1%    -25.6%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Property & Casualty           77,770.3   -1,331.8     -1.7%    -17.4%
Full-Line                    151,945.4   -6,154.1     -3.9%    -27.0%
Life                          58,454.1   -1,873.1     -3.1%    -31.3%
=======================================================================
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL        382,062.8  -12,661.1     -3.2%    -17.9%
=======================================================================
BROKERS                      258,330.1   -2,622.8     -1.0%     21.0%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Traditional                  241,588.5   -2,066.4     -0.8%     21.7%
Internet Brokers              16,741.6     -556.4     -3.2%     11.3%
=======================================================================
Donna Hemans
Reporting Assistant - Financial Services
(202) 628-7691
E-mail: donna.hemans@fedfil.com
Note: All earnings estimates provided by First Call/Thomson Financial.
Index components are available on request.
FEDERAL FILINGS CONTACTS: (202) 393-7856 for Editorial,
                          (202) 628-8990 for Newswire Sales,
                          (888) FED-FILE for Technical Support
                          http://www.fedfil.com/


08:30


Document ff00000020010805dw3800h5t




 FFBN Realty Wrap:Factory Outlet, Mall REITs Push  Decline 

1,221 words
8 March 2000
13:30
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS BUSINESS NEWS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
    (This market wrap was originally published Tuesday evening.)



        WASHINGTON (FFBN) -- Real estate investment trusts held their ground
Tuesday, as consumer stocks took a dive after a profit warning by Procter &
Gamble.
        The Federal Filings Business News REIT Index lost 3.59 points, or
0.76%, to 470.22.  Declining issues outweighed gainers by a margin of 114
to 26, with 16 closing unchanged.  REIT stocks fell an average of 1.5%.
        Keeping in line with the pummeling of consumer stocks, factory
outlet REITs dropped 0.11 point, or 2.58%, to 4.01.  The best performing
stock in the subindex was Tanger Factory Outlet Centers, which declined 3/8
point, or 2%, to 18 5/8.
        Regional mall REITs also topped the list of losers for the day,
giving up 0.62 point, or 1.71%, to 35.80.  Taubman Centers Inc. closed down
7/16 point, or 4.1%, at 10 3/16 before the company announced it would
buy back up to $50 million of its common stock.
        The biggest declining stock at the end of the day was Center Trust
Retail Properties Inc., a shopping center REIT, which lost 1 1/2 points, or
19.05%, to 6 3/8.
        While the triple net lease REITs one was the only subindex to finish
in positive territory - up 0.33 point, or 1.35%, at 24.73, the sector's
overall numbers don't tell the entire story.
        Only three of the sector's 12 components were higher at the end of
the day.  Pinnacle Holdings Inc. leapt 3 1/4, or 4.9%, to 69 7/8, while
Prison Realty Trust added 1/8 point, or 2.9%, to 4 7/16.  And, U.S.
Restaurant Properties Inc. edged up 1/16 point, or 0.5%, to 13 1/8.
        The downgrade of ratings on a number of homebuilders helped push
the FFBN Homebuilders Index down 1.76 point, or 2.09%, to 82.40.  Declining
issues outnumbered gainers by 15 to 7, with two finishing unchanged.  On
average, homebuilder stocks lost 0.91%.
        Turning to the broader markets, the Dow Jones Industrial Average
fell 347.47, or 3.68%, to 9796.03.  The Standard & Poor's 500 also closed
down, giving up 35.66 points, or 2.56%, at 1355.62.  The Nasdaq Composite
Index lost 57.01 points, or 1.16%, to 4847.84.
INTRA-DAY NEWS
COMPANY NEWS
                                            Net     Pct     FFO     FFO
                                  Close   Change  Change    99E     00E
JDN REALTY CORP. (JDN)           10 3/8   -3/16   -1.78%   $2.01   $2.18
JDN Realty Corp. signed an agreement with its senior bank group for the
company to receive continued funding as part of its existing credit
agreement.  JDN said the bank group will provide credit through the middle
of April.  The bank group has also agreed to negotiate with JDN on an
amendment to the existing agreement, or reach another agreement, by March
28.  JDN expects its special board committee to complete its inquiry into
compensation arrangements in the near future.
                                            Net     Pct     FFO     FFO
                                  Close   Change  Change    00E     01E
MALAN REALTY INVESTORS (MAL)     12 7/8    +1/4   +1.98%     N/A     N/A
Kensington Investment Group Inc. wants Malan Realty Investors Inc. to
insure the group's representation on Malan's board.  The group would like
to be a part of the board's strategies to maximize shareholder value,
according to a Schedule 13D filed Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  In a March 3 letter addressed to the company's board,
Kensington says, "... We believe we are entitled to representation on the
board and direct input into the board's current deliberations to enhance
shareholder value."  Kensington thinks the board should increase to eight
members and recommends "that three highly qualified individuals be appointed
to fill these new positions."  In the letter, Kensington said that if Malan's
board agrees with its suggestion, then Kensington can provide names of three
nominees.  Kensington said it has no intention of asserting change or
control with respect to the board, but would rather supply a new
perspective, according to the filing.  However, if the board does not make
sure that Kensington is represented on the board, Kensington will have to
consider alternatives, including replacing the board.
                                            Net     Pct     FFO     FFO
                                  Close   Change  Change    00E     01E
NVR INC. (NVR)                   44 3/8    -1/4   -0.56%  $10.47  $11.60
NVR Inc. plans to repurchase up to an additional $35 million of its common
shares from time to time in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
As reported, the company in August 1999 authorized the repurchase of up to
$35 million of its shares.  NVR, which has 9.4 million common shares
outstanding, is a real estate company that builds houses.
                                            Net     Pct     FFO     FFO
                                  Close   Change  Change    00E     01E
ARCHSTONE COMMUNITIES TRUST (ASN) 19 5/8   -1/8   -0.63%   $2.13   $2.28
Archstone Communities Trust expects acquisitions and the completion of
development activities to boost its overall net operating income in 2000.
Archstone also sees an increase in expenses during 2000, the company said
in its annual report filed Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  For the year ended Dec. 31, Archstone reported operating
income of $167.3 million compared with operating income of $133.9 million
for the previous year.  The company's expenses during 1999 totaled $499.5
million, compared with $379.7 million in 1998.  Archstone said it expects a
rise in 2000 net operating income as properties under development become
operational and as the full impact of incremental development completions
and acquisitions become fully reflected in its operating results.
EARNINGS
                              Fiscal  Earnings  Per Share  First Call
                             Quarter      Type     Result    Estimate
KONOVER PROPERTY TRUST (KPT)   4Q        FFO       $0.23        N/A
NOBILITY HOMES INC. (NOBH)     1Q        EPS       $0.08      $0.08
DYNAMIC HOMES INC. (DYHM)      4Q        EPS       $0.06      $0.06
Note: All earnings estimates provided by First Call.  Index components are
available upon request.
========================================================================
THE FEDERAL FILINGS REAL ESTATE INDEXES
========================================================================
INDEX                               CLOSE     NET CH   PCT CH    YTD CH
========================================================================
FEDERAL FILINGS REIT INDEX         470.22      -3.59   -0.76%    -2.46%
========================================================================
Apartment                           97.00      -0.46   -0.47%    -2.37%
Manufactured Home                    9.29      -0.05   -0.53%    -5.75%
Shopping Center                     43.51      -0.28   -0.64%    -5.42%
Regional Mall                       35.80      -0.62   -1.71%     0.63%
Factory Outlet Center                4.01      -0.11   -2.58%   -19.20%
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hotel                               15.70      -0.17   -1.07%    -0.75%
Industrial                          29.86      -0.52   -1.70%    -3.92%
Office                              70.98      -0.50   -0.70%    -1.68%
Self-Storage                        21.02      -0.20   -0.96%    -2.78%
Triple Net Lease                    24.73       0.33    1.35%    28.04%
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diversified                         89.04      -0.78   -0.87%    -2.20%
Healthcare                          20.37      -0.14   -0.66%   -14.76%
Mortgage                            16.61      -0.32   -1.86%    -7.75%
========================================================================
FEDERAL FILINGS HOMEBUILDER INDEX   82.40      -1.76   -2.09%   -13.86%
========================================================================
Robert Grant
Real Estate
(202) 393-7851
E-mail: robert.grant@fedfil.com
FEDERAL FILINGS CONTACTS: (202) 393-7856 for Editorial,
                          (202) 628-8990 for Newswire Sales,
                          (888) FED-FILE for Technical Support
                          http://www.fedfil.com/

Document ff00000020010805dw3800h5n




 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 Hemorrhage in P.& G. Share Price Drags Down the Market 

 By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 
1,329 words
8 March 2000
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 1, Column 2
English
 c. 2000 New York Times Company 

 In one of the more drastic stock swoons in memory for a blue chip company, shares of Procter & Gamble tumbled nearly 31 percent yesterday, dragging the Dow Jones industrial average and other makers of consumer products down with it, after the company warned that it would not meet earnings estimates for its third quarter. 

 Within minutes after the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange, $36 billion in market value for Procter had vanished -- quantifying the wrath of investors unaccustomed to bad news from a company that is often referred to as an ''iron man'' for its steady, predictable profit growth. 

 ''You evaporated a company bigger than Colgate-Palmolive today,'' said Jim Dormer, an analyst for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. 

 P.& G., the maker of Tide, Pampers, Crest toothpaste and Ivory soap, thus joined the list of once-highflying global consumer-products giants like Coca-Cola and Gillette whose fortunes have changed abruptly in recent months. The stock fell $27.0625, to $60.375. It accounted for about a third of the point decline in the Dow. 

 ''This is a very significant event for investors, because this is the kind of stock that people watch,'' said Leah Modigliani, a stock analyst for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter who has favored basic industries like oil and paper over consumer products for some time. ''And it is something that will cause people to lose faith in some of the American consumer businesses.'' 

 The company said it expected its profits to drop 10 percent to 11 percent in the quarter that ends March 31 compared with results in the period a year earlier. That is well off Wall Street's forecast of earnings 7 percent to 9 percent higher. 

 Management's explanation -- which cited rising prices for raw materials like petroleum and wood pulp, a delay in savings expected from a sweeping reorganization last year and higher costs because of a delay in federal approval for an osteoporosis drug -- failed to satisfy some analysts. 

 ''Investors are worried there may be another shoe to drop,'' said Wendy C. Nicholson, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney who downgraded Procter to ''hold'' more than a year ago. ''While Procter is expecting the third quarter to be down, can you really believe they are going to recover as quickly as they say they are?'' She added: ''Clearly, raw material prices have risen. The question is: Why didn't Procter expect this and manage the expectations better for shareholders and Wall Street?'' 

 In September 1998, the company issued a similar profit warning, and its shares slipped 9.7 percent, to $71.875. The company attributed that shortfall to flat sales in Europe and the financial crisis in Russia. 

 Procter's stock price slide yesterday was comparable to that of Philip Morris on April 2, 1993, when the company cut cigarette prices. On what became known as Marlboro Friday, the shares dropped 23 percent, to $49.375, down from $64.125. 

 Some analysts suggested that an aggressive strategy pursued by Procter's recently appointed chief executive, Durk I. Jager, had destabilized the share price, annoying investors further. In the 14 months since he became chief, Mr. Jager, bent on shaking up the insular corporate culture, has led a sweeping reorganization, introduced a raft of new products and pursued a huge acquisition that was later abandoned. 

 Six weeks ago, the stock was beaten down to $94.8125 a share, from a high of $117 last fall, after word of talks between Procter and American Home Products and Warner-Lambert leaked out. And Mr. Jager was clearly angry when he announced that Procter was dropping its plan to acquire the two drug companies for $142 billion. 

 Daniel Peris, an analyst at Argus Research, said: ''Most C.E.O.'s get a honeymoon and bring their own vision to the company, but the vision in Durk Jager's case has been loud, in your face, psychedelic. It seems they may have been doing things too fast. It's like trying to get a boat in shape and race it at the same time.'' 

 In an interview, Mr. Jager said he was disappointed by the third-quarter results. But he vowed to make this the last time Procter failed to hit its target. ''You'll see an enormous amount of concentration and focus in our company to ensure that this doesn't happen again,'' he said. ''Sometimes it takes a crisis to get the kind of focus we've always been able to do.'' 

 One retail expert, Burt Flickinger III, said Procter had created some of its own problems, particularly in Latin America and Europe, which Mr. Jager identified as highly competitive markets where the company had not done as well as it expected. 

 ''P.& G. stubbed its toe pretty badly with Carrefour, the leading international retailer,'' said Mr. Flickinger, managing director of Reach Marketing in Westport, Conn. When Carrefour executives in Argentina, Brazil and several European markets complained that Procter's everyday-low-price plan did not fit the store's strategy, Procter executives refused to change the plan, Mr. Flickinger said. ''They lost significant distribution at Carrefour in their core categories,'' he said. 

 A P.& G. spokesman, Simon Denegri, said, ''That is not one of the reasons we've put forward in terms of our earnings decline.'' 

 Procter has also been reluctant to team up with retailers to develop private-label brands of detergent and other products that have been strategically essential for the retailers, Mr. Flickinger added. ''It's still a heretical issue there,'' he said. As a result, the business has gone to competitors like Colgate-Palmolive and to private-label American companies like J. L. Prescott, he said, as well as overseas companies willing to fill the void. Mr. Denegri said he had no comment on that issue. 

 ''The household-products business,'' said Amy Low Chasen, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs, ''has gotten more difficult over time, and the fact that you've got the bellwether company having difficulty just confirms that.'' 

 Investors expressed caution yesterday about the company's future. ''Not everything is flowing as they expected, so you're seeing an imbalance between sales and cost savings,'' said Mark Godfrey, a senior analyst with Invesco Funds Group in Denver. ''What it highlights is that it is very difficult to forecast and track the global economic environment for a lot of these multinationals these days. There is increased volatility, and things happen so much quicker.'' 

 Timothy Ghriskey, a senior portfolio manager for Dreyfus, which owns 4.5 million shares of Procter, said he saw the issue of rising commodity prices as temporary. ''Pulp costs are not going to stay this high forever,'' he said. But he added: ''Something Procter has always been able to do is to let one area bleed, either geography or product, because they are so massive. And the rest of the company picks up the slack. This seems to be one of those times when they are not able to do that.'' 

 One marketing expert said he fully expected Procter to regain its balance, but added that doing so would test Mr. Jager's managerial skill. ''I am willing to hear what they have to say, but I think they've got about six months,'' said Ken Harris, a partner in Cannondale Associates, a consulting firm. ''They are not the kind of animal that does well when their confidence is shaken.'' He added, ''No one likes a stalwart company to be doing anything other than being a stalwart company.'' 

 Graph: ''Taking a Tumble'' After Proctor & Gamble announced that earnings for it's third quarter would fall short of forcasts, it's stock price fell nearly 31 percent. Graph tracks Net Income and Weekly Stock Price for Proctor & Gamble since 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10) 

Document nytf000020010809dw3800dvz




 RESEARCH ALERT-MSDW cuts Unilever to "outperform". 

97 words
8 March 2000
10:32
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, March 8 (Reuters) - Morgan Stanley Dean Witter said on Wednesday it cut its investment rating on household goods group Unilever Plc   to "outperform" from "strong buy" with a price target of 600 pence. 

 Further detail was not immediately available. 

 Unilever shares have come under pressure since a profit warning on Tuesday from consumer products group Procter & Gamble Co.  unsettled sentiment across the industry. 

 ((David Holmes London Newsroom +44 171 542 4367 fax +44 171 542 2120, uk.equities.news@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw38054aa




 U.S. stocks to rebound at open after P&G warning. 

 By Amy Collins 
761 words
8 March 2000
13:29
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 8 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks are expected to rally at the open on Wednesday, rebounding from the severe blow the Dow Jones industrial average suffered due to a profit warning from consumer products giant Procter & Gamble . 

 "You're going to have a rebound in the first hour. The question is, what happens after that," said Larry Wachtel, a market analyst at Prudential Securities Inc. 

 Analysts said the drop in oil prices, and an oversold condition in Dow and Standard and Poor's 500 stocks would help the market rally while a morning speech from Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan would add to volatility. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 futures index for March was up 4.4 points at 1,356 while the Nasdaq futures index for March was 31 points higher at 4,424. 

 The 30-year U.S. Treasury bond was down 8/32 with a yield of 6.16 percent, while the 10-year note was down 9/32 with a yield of 6.40 percent. 

 Oil prices declined slightly as OPEC powers Saudi Arabia and Iran agreed in key talks on Wednesday that oil producers should provide adequate and timely supplies to cool red-hot prices. 


The Dow Jones industrial average	 , fell 374.47 points on Tuesday, or 3.68 percent, to close at 9,796.03, its lowest level since March 31, 1999. It was the Dow's fourth-biggest point decline ever, bringing the average more than 15 percent off its Jan. 14 high of 11,722.



More than 1.3 billion shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange, making it the second busiest day on the Big Board.



Dow component Procter & Gamble, the maker of Tide detergent and Crest toothpaste, shed 27-7/16 points after it said it would fall far short of earnings expectations due in part to rising costs it was unable to pass on to consumers.



P&G, which lost 31 percent of its value to end at 60 on Tuesday, was trading slightly higher in pre-market trading on Wednesday. The stock was selling at 61-1/12 on Instinet.



Arthur Hogan, the chief market analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Boston, said he wasn't surprised the company was making a slight comeback since it has a good business plan and good products. "It just means that instead of 15 percent growth per year in earnings, they'll do 7 to 8 percent," he said.



Hogan also said the rebound would not be limited to the beaten-up Dow, but that Nasdaq could also close above the 5,000 level for the first time.



The Nasdaq Composite Index	   on Tuesday, which early on pierced the 5,000 level for the first time, ended 57.01 points lower, or 1.16 percent, at 4,847.84.
The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index	  lost 35.66 points, or 2.56 percent, to close at 1,355.62. The Russell 2000	  small-cap index fell 6.17 points, or 1.03 percent, to 595.47.



In San Antonio, Texas, Greenspan will deliver a speech titled "Challenges for Community Bankers and Supervisors" to the Independent Community Bankers of America. The speech is scheduled to start as the market opens, at 9:30 a.m. EST (1430 GMT).



On Monday, remarks from Greenspan and Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Arthur Levitt unsettled markets with talk of a too-hot economy and overextended investors.



Two other Fed officials are scheduled to make public speeches during the day, but neither are voting members of the Federal Open Market Committee, which will discuss interest rates at its March 21 meeting.



In economic news, the Federal Reserve will release its "Beige Book" of economic conditions for January and February at 2 p.m. EST (1900 GMT).



Stocks in the news included Comverse Technology Inc. , which announced a two-for-one stock split and reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter profits due to strong demand for its communications software systems.



MCI WorldCom Inc. , the U.S. long-distance telephone company set to buy smaller rival Sprint Corp. , said it soon expects to finalise a contract with America Online Inc.  to carry its Internet traffic.



Retailer Kohl's Corp.  said profits rose 28 percent in the fourth quarter, beating estimates, driven by higher sales in women's apparel, accessories and items for the home.



(Wall Street Newsdesk + 212 859 1730)).



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw3804wx4




 Unilever claws back some of Tuesday losses. 

236 words
8 March 2000
08:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 AMSTERDAM, March 8 (Reuters) - Shares in food to detergents group Unilever  bounced two percent higher in early Amsterdam trade on Wednesday, recovering from a nine percent fall late Tuesday after a profit warning from Procter and Gamble . 

 Unilever stock opened slightly weaker at 43.15 euros, not far off the three-year low of 41.35 euros hit on February 14, but recovered to trade up 1.56 percent at 43.5 euros at 0810 GMT. The AEX blue chip index was flat. 

 "The Procter and Gamble warning has nothing to do with Unilever. It (P&G) triggered the price war in Brazil and now costs are running out of hand. It's not applicable to Unilever," one trader said. 

 Procter and Gamble was responsible for much of the 3.7 percent drop in the Dow on Tuesday after it said third quarter fiscal earnings would drop 10 to 11 percent from a year ago. P&G shares lost almost a third of their value after the release. 

 The news rubbed off on Unilever late on Tuesday with the stock shedding almost nine percent to 42.83 euros. 

 "The decline was overdone and now we're seeing a bit of a recovery," the trader said. 

 ((Amsterdam newsroom, +31 20 504 5000, Fax +31 20 504 5040, amsterdam.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3804rin




 Sasol up in slick of U.S. oil share rally. 

248 words
8 March 2000
10:33
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 JOHANNESBURG, March 8 (Reuters) - Shares in South Africa's Sasol rallied on Wednesday tracking a sudden surge in oil refining and exploration counters on the U.S. stock market overnight after a period of sustained weakness. 

 By 1010 GMT, the counter was up 225 cents or 5.4 percent at 44 rand in heavy volume of nearly two million shares. 

 "Oil shares have been significantly de-rated due to investors switching out of these into "new economy" stocks," said Gerhard Engelbrecht, a fuels analyst at ING Barings. 

 "They have fallen out of the bus and then last night completely bucked the trend." 


The Dow Jones industrial average	  was whacked by its fourth biggest point decline ever on Tuesday night following a profit warning from Procter & Gamble, but oil giant Exxon Mobil Corp  soared as oil prices topped $34 a barrel.



Oil prices have jumped on mounting supply fears.



Another analyst said that Sasol was not itself responding to higher oil prices, which slipped on Wednesday on the likelihood that producers would raise output in the second quarter after a deal to restrict supply runs out.



"It appears to have broken off recently from tracking the oil price. If it had, it would have been at 75 rand now," the analyst said.



((Nicole Mordant, Johannesburg newsroom, +27-11-775-3131,



fax: +27-11-775-3132, e-mail: newsroom@reuters.co.za)).



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw3804q84




 U.S. blue chips recover modestly, Nasdaq ends higher. 

 By Eric Wahlgren 
1,002 words
8 March 2000
22:02
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 8 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks made a partial recovery on Wednesday from a punishing sell-off of "old economy" stocks as Wall Street decided that people will still need food, clothing and drugs despite all the Internet's promise. 

 In a marked turnaround, Wednesday's market leaders were the same pharmaceuticals, retailers and other old-line companies, which on Tuesday had yanked the Dow Jones industrial averagedown to its lowest level in nearly a year. 

 "I think investors have recognised that there is good value in strongly franchised companies in the old economy stocks," said Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward Jones in St. Louis. "We are not all going to be sitting around in the dark - cold, hungry and naked - surfing the Internet. You still need Johnson & Johnson. You still need the Gap. You still need McDonald's." 

 The Dow climbed 60.50 points, or 0.62 percent, to 9,856.53, a day after the 30-stock index fell to nearly its lowest level since March 31, 1999. 

 The catalyst for the selling frenzy had been a profit warning from consumer products giant Procter & Gamble Inc., which on Wednesday slipped another 2-3/8 to 57-5/8. 

 Pharmaceuticals were the big winners in the Dow with Merck & Co. up 2-11/16 to 56-5/8 and Johnson & Johnson up 4 at 71 as investors rotated into the mainstream drug stocks from the pricier biotechnology sector. 

 Some "new economy" stocks saw a rare stumble, with recent market darlings like semiconductors and biotechnology closing lower. But the Nasdaq composite index finished with respectable gains after being in the red. 

 The Nasdaq advanced 49.33 points, or 1.02 percent, to 4,897.17, but was well off the magic 5,000 mark that it hit for the first time on Tuesday. The tech-stacked index at the end of the session on Tuesday was also swept into the selling frenzy. 

 The Standard and Poor's index of 500 stocks rose 11.08 points, or 0.82 percent, to 1,366.70. 

 "My sense is yesterday's ugliness was very much an overreaction," said Phil Orlando, chief investment officer of Value Line's Asset Management division. "Procter & Gamble, obviously, is a big name and it was a disappointing bit of guidance from management. But I'm not sure that it should have taken every stock in the western hemisphere down with it." 

 "I think today we're seeing some cooler heads prevailing and investors are sifting through the rubble of yesterday's carnage and trying to pick out some undervalued gems," Orlando said. 

 Helping the bounce-back was the return of oil futures to levels near $30 a barrel after Tuesday's surge to nine-year highs approaching $35. The decline came after news that there were large builds in U.S. crude and gasoline inventories and comments from OPEC powers Saudi Arabia and Iran, who sounded more open to boosting oil output. 

 The Federal Reserve has added soaring oil prices to its growing list of inflation concerns, underscoring expectations on Wall Street that further interest rate hikes are imminent. 

 In other economic news, the Fed's latest Beige Book, a periodic survey of regional economic conditions, reported continued strong growth in late January and February and a very tight jobs market which was driving up wages. 

 The Fed's rate-setting committee next meets on March 21 to decide whether to raise borrowing costs. 

 "The lower oil prices have to be a plus, because they mitigate some of the concerns out there about inflation," said Jack Shaughnessy, chief investment strategist at Advest. 

 On the New York Stock Exchange, decliners beat advances 15 to 14 with about 1.20 billion shares changing hands. There were 49 stocks hitting new highs and 263 hitting new lows. 

 Other drug stocks followed the lead of their Dow siblings, including Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Schering-Plough Corp. after PaineWebber upgraded both stocks, saying the recent sell-off in the sector had brought their stocks to attractive levels. 

 Bristol-Myers shares rose 5-1/8 to 47-7/8 and Schering-Plough shares added 3-1/4 to 33-13/16. 

 The news of lower oil prices helped transportation stocks, with the Dow Jones transportation average up 3.93 percent. 

 Airlines, which spend a lot of money on jet fuel, were higher with US Airways Group Inc. up 3-9/16 to 21-3/16, American Airlines' parent AMR Corp. up 3-3/8 to 54-7/8 and Delta Air Lines Inc. up 3-15/16 to 47-1/2. 

 On the Nasdaq, one strong gainer was business software company Oracle Corp., which jumped 8-3/16 to 83-1/8 after announcing plans with oil major Chevron Corp. and retailer Wal-mart Stores Inc. to create an Internet marketplace for the convenience store industry. 

 Chevron slipped 15/16 to 81-1/16 while Wal-mart gained 3/4 to 48-5/16. 

 Semiconductor stocks illustrated the weakness in high-tech shares. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange index of semiconductor stocks trimmed earlier losses but was down 1.71 percent after weeks of showing hyper-gains. The index is up about 75 percent for the year. 

 Banks were under pressure after Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said in a speech in Texas that he was worried that many U.S. banks seemed to think the current good economic times will last forever, causing them to get excessively lax in their lending. 

 The 30-year U.S. Treasury bond was down 7/32 with a yield of 6.16 percent, up from Tuesday's close of 6.15 percent. The 10-year note was down 4/32, or 1/8 of a point, with a yield of 6.39 percent. 

 The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's bank index was off 1.06 percent. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3804nui




 CRASH FEARS AS DOW JONES TAKES A PLUNGE. 

157 words
8 March 2000
Daily Mail
DAIM
English
(c) 2000

 US SHARE prices slumped last night to take the Dow Jones index down a hefty 416 points at one stage, raising fears of the market crash which bears have long feared. `New economy' stocks were less hard hit, though the Nasdaq index fell sharply after reaching a record 5006 early in the day. 

 Warnings from US regulator Arthur Levitt about overvaluation, and from Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan about higher interest rates came on top of Procter & Gamble's profit warning. Following the Procter statement, brokers cut their earnings forecasts for all household product and cosmetics companies. 

 US fund manager Roy Blumberg said: `A good piece of the old economy is not doing so well. But it will take a lot from the Fed to slow the tech rally.' The Dow closed 374 points lower at 9796. It has fallen 17pc since its 11,723 peak in January. 

Document daim000020010805dw38000wj




Business
P&G profit woes pull down Dow

CROMWELL SCHUBARTH   
833 words
8 March 2000
Boston Herald
BHLD
ALL
38
English
Copyright © 2000 Boston Herald, All rights reserved.  Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Procter & Gamble yesterday threw fuel on the fire lit Monday by Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, warning that its earnings would fall short and pushing the Dow into its steepest dive since October 1998.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average posted its worst two-day point loss since October 1998, when it was roiled by a market crisis in Asia.

"The question here is whether or not the Fed can engineer a soft landing," said David Wyss, chief economist for Standard & Poors. "Alan Greenspan has done it before and he could do it again, but it's never been accomplished twice in a row."

Yesterday's selling even cut short enthusiasm among Nasdaq investors. The technology-dominated Nasdaq index finished down 57.01 at 4,847.84 on profit-taking and computer-programmed selling triggered yesterday when it passed 5,000 for the first time.

The Dow dropped 374.47 points yesterday, or 3.7 percent, to close at 9,796.03, after Procter & Gamble's surprise profit warning.

Broader stock indicators also fell sharply. The Standard & Poor's 500 plunged 35.66 to 1,355.62, and the Russell 2000 index of smaller companies lost 6.17, closing at 595.47.

Procter & Gamble, one of the 30 Dow industrial companies, accounted for nearly a third of the index's decline yesterday.

The consumer product giant's shares dove 31 percent when it forecast earnings will drop 10 percent to 11percent in its third quarter, instead of an expected 7 percent to 9percent increase. P&G shares fell $26.44, to close at $61.

Higher raw material costs and greater competition were blamed for P&G's woes yesterday, but the warning raised profit concerns among investors about other companies, as well, analysts said.

Merrill Lynch downgraded its ratings on the entire consumer products sector, depressing stocks, including Colgate Palmolive and Kimberly Clark. Those companies have not issued any warnings about earnings, but Colgate Palmolive fell $6.06 to $46.75 and Kimberly Clark fell $5.25 to $45.38. Gillette Co. dropped $2.44 to $32.44.

Other losers in the Dow included American Express, down $2.88 to $126.38 and Coca-Cola, off $1.44 at $47.56.

Only Microsoft and Exxon Mobil contained the Dow's losses. Microsoft rose $2.25 to $92.88 following a positive report from a Goldman Sachs analyst, while Exxon Mobil rose $8.06 to $81, a beneficiary of the latest rise in oil prices.

Coming just weeks before the end of the first quarter, investors were apparently nervous about the possibility of more unpleasant surprises.

"The Fed is always afraid of causing a panic that could halt growth," said Edward Kane, the Cleary Professor of Finance at Boston College, who said central bankers would ease off the brakes if that is needed. "They want to cool things down smoothly, without forcing people to lose confidence."

The Fed is focused on unemployment and inflation, said S&P economist Wyss.

"They are particularly watching the rise in oil prices, which has been the cause of the last three recessions," he said.

Despite a rise that is expected to pump gasoline prices up to $1.70 to $1.80 a gallon, that is relatively cheap compared to what fuel cost in the 1981 recession. "It would have to hit $2.50 a gallon to repeat what happened back then," Wyss said.

On the futures markets yesterday, oil surged above $34 a barrel for the first time in more than nine years yesterday on concerns that OPEC would not increase production next month. Crude futures rose as high as $34.20 a barrel.

National unemployment rose slightly in February from a 30-year-low of 4 percent in January, but dip into the threes in the spring, Wyss predicted.

"Hiring of U.S. Census takers is going to push those rates back down," he said.

Analysts said the Fed will ignore the Nasdaq if it continues to rise despite a slowdown in the economy.

Despite yesterday's drop, the Nasdaq is still up about 19percent in the year to date, compared with a loss of about 15percent for the Dow.

Analysts said the Nasdaq's incredible gains have left it vulnerable to investors eager to collect some profits.

"It's going to be a lot harder to slow down the Nasdaq than to slow down the economy," said Manny Weiss, a senior portfolio manager at Putnam Investments.

People are willing to ignore the comparatively high prices of technology stocks as long as there is a chance at a big reward, said BC professor Kane.

"It's like gambling on the lottery," he said. "People will pay a lot more for lottery tickets than they are likely to get in return as long as there is a chance at the jackpot."

Material from the Associated Press was used in this report.

Document BHLD000020110827dw3800ds4




 Entertainment hardy despite market tumble.(Brief Article) 

 Paul Bond 
647 words
8 March 2000
Hollywood Reporter
HLYW
8
ISSN: 0018-3660; Volume 362; Issue 5
English
 Copyright 2000 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved. COPYRIGHT 2000 VNU Business Media 

 Stocks tumbled for a second consecutive session Tuesday after household-goods giant Procter & Gamble issued a profit warning, sending the Dow Jones industrial average to its lowest level in nearly a year. But entertainment issues fared somewhat better, and some media companies -- old and new -- managed gains amid the broad market sell-off. 

 The Dow plunged 374.47 points, or 3.7%, on Tuesday, capping its biggest two-day loss since October 1998. The venerable index, at 9,796.03, sits 16.6% off its January high. 

 Even the Nasdaq index, laden heavily with popular technology issues, lost ground Tuesday. After soaring above 5,000 for an early intraday high, the index closed 57.01 or 1.2%. 

 Entertainment issues bucking the downward trend Tuesday included big-screen concerns Imax and Iwerks, which gained 10% and 50%, respectively. Imax improved 2 1/8 to 23 5/8, and Iwerks gained nearly a point to 2 13/16. 

 K-Tel International jumped 1 1/16 to 7 3/16 after positive comments about the music company surfaced at WallStreetGems.com, an investment Web site that identifies what it considers undervalued small-cap stocks. 

 Other small media companies advancing Tuesday, albeit slightly, included Acme Communications, XM Satellite Radio Inc., MP3.com, Image Entertainment, Lions Gate Entertainment, Metromedia International, Avid Technologies and Paxson Communications. 

 Todd-AO Corp., Westwood One Inc. and Dick Clark Prods. also managed gains, while the Walt Disney Co. and TiVo Inc. ended the session flat. 

 The company that prompted Tuesday's sell-off, Procter & Gamble, accounted for nearly one-third of the Dow's decline while shedding a dramatic $36 billion from its market cap. 

 The markets were also spooked by a spike in oil prices to a nine-year high and the lingering possibility -- widely accepted as a foregone conclusion by many Wall Street analysts -- that the Federal Reserve Board will raise interest rates yet again. 

 "There is the expectation that higher rates will slow the economy and particularly impact the so-called 'old economy' companies," Joseph Stocke of Stoneridge Investment Partners Llc. in Malvern, Pa., told Bloomberg News. "The Fed will raise rates as they feel necessary to control growth and keep it at a sustainable pace without inflation." 

 The Hollywood Reporter/Bloomberg 25 Entertainment Stock Index shed 2.14% on Tuesday, less than the 2.56% drop incurred by the S&P 500. The entertainment index is off 6.42% this year, and the S&P is down 7.73%. 

 Seagram Co., News Corp. and Sony Corp. retreated from recent gains, with Sony off 4% following Monday's 27 point-plus drubbing. At 267 1/2, the latter is well off its recent high of 314 3/4, but the electronics and entertainment giant has been on a tear of late that has elevated its share price from a 52-week low of 82 13/16. 

 News Corp., down 1 9/16 on Tuesday, and Seagram, off 3 1/2, are up 65.7% and 36.3% this year, respectively. 

 Viacom Inc., which has traded largely sideways this year, saw its B shares shed 7/8 to 54 1/2. NBC parent General Electronic Co. lost 5 5/8 to 131 3/4, while merger partners Time Warner and America Online each slipped fractionally. 

 U.S. shares of troubled Canadian children's TV program producer Cinar Corp. plunged 12 1/2 to 5 3/4 on Tuesday as investors panicked amid a growing financial crisis at the company. Cinar, maker of the Emmy-winning "Arthur" series, faces three class-action lawsuits and is under investigation by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police for tax fraud. 

FULL TEXT VNU eMedia, Inc. THIS IS THE FULL TEXT: COPYRIGHT 2000 VNU Business Media Subscription: $175.00 per year. Published daily (5 times a week).

Document hlyw000020010806dw38002mh




 FFBN Realty Wrap:Factory Outlet, Mall REITs Push  Decline 

1,213 words
7 March 2000
23:09
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS BUSINESS NEWS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
        WASHINGTON (FFBN) -- Real estate investment trusts held their ground
Tuesday, as consumer stocks took a dive after a profit warning by Procter &
Gamble.



        The Federal Filings Business News REIT Index lost 3.59 points, or
0.76%, to 470.22.  Declining issues outweighed gainers by a margin of 114
to 26, with 16 closing unchanged.  REIT stocks fell an average of 1.5%.
        Keeping in line with the pummeling of consumer stocks, factory
outlet REITs dropped 0.11 point, or 2.58%, to 4.01.  The best performing
stock in the subindex was Tanger Factory Outlet Centers, which declined 3/8
point, or 2%, to 18 5/8.
        Regional mall REITs also topped the list of losers for the day,
giving up 0.62 point, or 1.71%, to 35.80.  Taubman Centers Inc. closed down
7/16 point, or 4.1%, at 10 3/16 before the company announced it would
buy back up to $50 million of its common stock.
        The biggest declining stock at the end of the day was Center Trust
Retail Properties Inc., a shopping center REIT, which lost 1 1/2 points, or
19.05%, to 6 3/8.
        While the triple net lease REITs one was the only subindex to finish
in positive territory - up 0.33 point, or 1.35%, at 24.73, the sector's
overall numbers don't tell the entire story.
        Only three of the sector's 12 components were higher at the end of
the day.  Pinnacle Holdings Inc. leapt 3 1/4, or 4.9%, to 69 7/8, while
Prison Realty Trust added 1/8 point, or 2.9%, to 4 7/16.  And, U.S.
Restaurant Properties Inc. edged up 1/16 point, or 0.5%, to 13 1/8.
        The downgrade of ratings on a number of homebuilders helped push
the FFBN Homebuilders Index down 1.76 point, or 2.09%, to 82.40.  Declining
issues outnumbered gainers by 15 to 7, with two finishing unchanged.  On
average, homebuilder stocks lost 0.91%.
        Turning to the broader markets, the Dow Jones Industrial Average
fell 347.47, or 3.68%, to 9796.03.  The Standard & Poor's 500 also closed
down, giving up 35.66 points, or 2.56%, at 1355.62.  The Nasdaq Composite
Index lost 57.01 points, or 1.16%, to 4847.84.
INTRA-DAY NEWS
COMPANY NEWS
                                            Net     Pct     FFO     FFO
                                  Close   Change  Change    99E     00E
JDN REALTY CORP. (JDN)           10 3/8   -3/16   -1.78%   $2.01   $2.18
JDN Realty Corp. signed an agreement with its senior bank group for the
company to receive continued funding as part of its existing credit
agreement.  JDN said the bank group will provide credit through the middle
of April.  The bank group has also agreed to negotiate with JDN on an
amendment to the existing agreement, or reach another agreement, by March
28.  JDN expects its special board committee to complete its inquiry into
compensation arrangements in the near future.
                                            Net     Pct     FFO     FFO
                                  Close   Change  Change    00E     01E
MALAN REALTY INVESTORS (MAL)     12 7/8    +1/4   +1.98%     N/A     N/A
Kensington Investment Group Inc. wants Malan Realty Investors Inc. to
insure the group's representation on Malan's board.  The group would like
to be a part of the board's strategies to maximize shareholder value,
according to a Schedule 13D filed Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  In a March 3 letter addressed to the company's board,
Kensington says, "... We believe we are entitled to representation on the
board and direct input into the board's current deliberations to enhance
shareholder value."  Kensington thinks the board should increase to eight
members and recommends "that three highly qualified individuals be appointed
to fill these new positions."  In the letter, Kensington said that if Malan's
board agrees with its suggestion, then Kensington can provide names of three
nominees.  Kensington said it has no intention of asserting change or
control with respect to the board, but would rather supply a new
perspective, according to the filing.  However, if the board does not make
sure that Kensington is represented on the board, Kensington will have to
consider alternatives, including replacing the board.
                                            Net     Pct     FFO     FFO
                                  Close   Change  Change    00E     01E
NVR INC. (NVR)                   44 3/8    -1/4   -0.56%  $10.47  $11.60
NVR Inc. plans to repurchase up to an additional $35 million of its common
shares from time to time in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
As reported, the company in August 1999 authorized the repurchase of up to
$35 million of its shares.  NVR, which has 9.4 million common shares
outstanding, is a real estate company that builds houses.
                                            Net     Pct     FFO     FFO
                                  Close   Change  Change    00E     01E
ARCHSTONE COMMUNITIES TRUST (ASN) 19 5/8   -1/8   -0.63%   $2.13   $2.28
Archstone Communities Trust expects acquisitions and the completion of
development activities to boost its overall net operating income in 2000.
Archstone also sees an increase in expenses during 2000, the company said
in its annual report filed Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  For the year ended Dec. 31, Archstone reported operating
income of $167.3 million compared with operating income of $133.9 million
for the previous year.  The company's expenses during 1999 totaled $499.5
million, compared with $379.7 million in 1998.  Archstone said it expects a
rise in 2000 net operating income as properties under development become
operational and as the full impact of incremental development completions
and acquisitions become fully reflected in its operating results.
EARNINGS
                              Fiscal  Earnings  Per Share  First Call
                             Quarter      Type     Result    Estimate
KONOVER PROPERTY TRUST (KPT)   4Q        FFO       $0.23        N/A
NOBILITY HOMES INC. (NOBH)     1Q        EPS       $0.08      $0.08
DYNAMIC HOMES INC. (DYHM)      4Q        EPS       $0.06      $0.06
Note: All earnings estimates provided by First Call.  Index components are
available upon request.
========================================================================
THE FEDERAL FILINGS REAL ESTATE INDEXES
========================================================================
INDEX                               CLOSE     NET CH   PCT CH    YTD CH
========================================================================
FEDERAL FILINGS REIT INDEX         470.22      -3.59   -0.76%    -2.46%
========================================================================
Apartment                           97.00      -0.46   -0.47%    -2.37%
Manufactured Home                    9.29      -0.05   -0.53%    -5.75%
Shopping Center                     43.51      -0.28   -0.64%    -5.42%
Regional Mall                       35.80      -0.62   -1.71%     0.63%
Factory Outlet Center                4.01      -0.11   -2.58%   -19.20%
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hotel                               15.70      -0.17   -1.07%    -0.75%
Industrial                          29.86      -0.52   -1.70%    -3.92%
Office                              70.98      -0.50   -0.70%    -1.68%
Self-Storage                        21.02      -0.20   -0.96%    -2.78%
Triple Net Lease                    24.73       0.33    1.35%    28.04%
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diversified                         89.04      -0.78   -0.87%    -2.20%
Healthcare                          20.37      -0.14   -0.66%   -14.76%
Mortgage                            16.61      -0.32   -1.86%    -7.75%
========================================================================
FEDERAL FILINGS HOMEBUILDER INDEX   82.40      -1.76   -2.09%   -13.86%
========================================================================
Robert Grant
Real Estate
(202) 393-7851
E-mail: robert.grant@fedfil.com
FEDERAL FILINGS CONTACTS: (202) 393-7856 for Editorial,
                          (202) 628-8990 for Newswire Sales,
                          (888) FED-FILE for Technical Support
                          http://www.fedfil.com/

Document ff00000020010805dw3700gjh




 FFBN Financials Wrap: Financials Drop In Tandem With  Market 

850 words
7 March 2000
22:50
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS BUSINESS NEWS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
        WASHINGTON (FFBN) - Financial stocks participated in the general
market decline Tuesday, ending the day largely lower.



        The Federal Filings Diversified Financial Index closed down 3.2%,
or 12,661.1, to 382,062.8, while our Banking Index lost 3.8%, or 14,042, to
355,381.7.
        KeyCorp was a big percentage loser, ending down 7.9%, or 1 3/8, at
17 3/8.  Huntington Bancshares Inc. shed 6.7%, or 1 5/16, to 19 1/2.
        Even securities brokers, which have traded higher in recent days on
a strong first quarter profit outlook, failed to shrug off the general
market worries.  Market watchers indicated that investors were selling
shares because of the uncertainty of market conditions.  In addition,
consumer issues stumbled after a profit warning from Procter & Gamble.
        Among brokers, Bear Stearns lost 5.3%, or 2 1/4, to close at 42
3/8, while Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. shed 4.8%, or 4, to close at 83
13/16.
        The Federal Filings Brokerage Index lost 1%, or 2,622.8, to close
at 258,330.1.
        The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 374.47, or 3.68%, to 9,796.03
and the S&P 500-Stock Index dropped 35.66, or 2.56%, to 1,355.62.  The
Nasdaq Composite Index closed Tuesday's session at 4847.84, down 57.01, or
1.16%.  The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond rose to 6.148% from 6.144%
late Monday.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                              Net     Pct    EPS    EPS
CONSECO INC.                        Close   Change  Change   00E    01E
                                    13 1/4  -11/16   -5.2% $2.75  $3.36
Conseco Inc. said it is confident it will exceed its 15% growth target for
the first quarter.  The company indicated it is comfortable with current
First Call/Thomson Financial consensus estimates for both the first quarter
and full-year periods.  A First Call/Thomson Financial survey of seven
analysts produced a mean earnings estimate of 60 cents a share for the
company's first quarter. A survey of 13 analysts produced a mean earnings
estimate of $2.75 for the company's full-year period.
                                             Net     Pct     EPS    EPS
FIRSTAR CORP.                       Close   Change  Change   00E    01E
                                  18 5/16   -15/16   -5.1% $1.53  $1.76
Merrill Lynch raised its rating on Firstar Corp. to "near-term accumulate"
from "near-term neutral."  The brokerage firm also retained its "long-term
buy" rating.
                                                Net     Pct    EPS    EPS
COMMUNITY FINANCIAL CORP.             Close   Change  Change   00E    01E
                                    10 1/16    -1/16   -0.6%   N/A    N/A
Community Financial Corp. said its board has adopted a strategic plan with
initiatives to enhance shareholder value.  The plan will include a
significant stock repurchase program, consolidation of the charters of the
company's bank units and the sale of some lower-yielding securities.
Community Financial said it will decrease residential lending to focus on
construction, agricultural and commercial real estate loans.
                                                Net     Pct    EPS    EPS
COMMERCIAL NATIONAL FINANCIAL CORP.   Close   Change  Change   00E    01E
                                         15   -13/16   -5.1%   N/A    N/A
Commercial National Financial Corp. revised its 1999 net income lower to
$3,203,605, or 90 cents a share, from the previously announced $4,932,611,
or $1.38 a share, because the company charged off loans to a major
commercial account. the company said it took the charge-off because of a
substantial decline in the value of collateral pledged to support the loans
of a single customer, reducing the prospect of receiving full repayment of
the loans.
=======================================================================
                THE FEDERAL FILINGS FINANCIALS INDEXES
=======================================================================
INDEX                            CLOSE     NET CH    PCT CH    YTD CH
=======================================================================
BANKS                        355,381.7  -14,040.0     -3.8%    -15.6%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Money-Center Banks           188,546.1   -4,136.0     -2.1%     -9.5%
Central                      136,444.5   -6,212.9     -4.4%    -19.8%
Eastern                      109,963.2   -4,576.2     -4.0%      3.1%
Southern                      94,109.8   -2,540.7     -2.6%    -23.1%
Western                       14,864.2     -710.3     -4.6%    -32.2%
=======================================================================
THRIFTS                       30,852.5     -615.1     -2.0%    -17.8%
=======================================================================
INSURANCE                    288,169.8   -9,359.0     -3.1%    -25.6%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Property & Casualty           77,770.3   -1,331.8     -1.7%    -17.4%
Full-Line                    151,945.4   -6,154.1     -3.9%    -27.0%
Life                          58,454.1   -1,873.1     -3.1%    -31.3%
=======================================================================
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL        382,062.8  -12,661.1     -3.2%    -17.9%
=======================================================================
BROKERS                      258,330.1   -2,622.8     -1.0%     21.0%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Traditional                  241,588.5   -2,066.4     -0.8%     21.7%
Internet Brokers              16,741.6     -556.4     -3.2%     11.3%
=======================================================================
Donna Hemans
Reporting Assistant - Financial Services
(202) 628-7691
E-mail: donna.hemans@fedfil.com
Note: All earnings estimates provided by First Call/Thomson Financial.
Index components are available on request.
FEDERAL FILINGS CONTACTS: (202) 393-7856 for Editorial,
                          (202) 628-8990 for Newswire Sales,
                          (888) FED-FILE for Technical Support
                          http://www.fedfil.com/


17:50


Document ff00000020010805dw3700gix


 Business 
 MONEYLINE; CNNfn 

 Willow Bay, Stuart Varney 
4,378 words
7 March 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 ANNOUNCER:  This is MONEYLINE. Reporting tonight from New York, Stuart Varney and Willow Bay. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:   In tonight`s headlines, the Dow driven back below 10,000 in a harrowing season, after America`s biggest consumer product giant sets off a profit alarm. Oil prices stampede through a new nine year high, more than $34 a barrel.  What is it doing to stocks and to the economy? And the second in our special series on net privacy.  How easy is it to access your personal portfolio, bank account and credit card information online, easier than you might think. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  But first, our top story which is, the Dow in a free fall.  The blue chip index plummeted in its worst session of the year, closing at its lowest level in nearly 12 months. That after Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) stunned Wall Street with a profit warning. The Dow began the session in the black but it stayed there  for just a few minutes, before capsizing. It fell a staggering 417 points before ending down 374.  As for the Nasdaq, it made its own dramatic move early on, but in the opposite direction. It vaulted  through 5,000 for the first time. That victory though was fleeting with the Nasdaq ending the day down 57.  While P&G was the major contributor to the Dow`s devastation, it wasn`t the only problem today  for stocks. Peter Viles reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The blue chips were hit by a wicked one two punch and instead of coming to their defense, investors bailed out in heavy selling.  The punches were a profitwarning from Procter & Gamble, coupled with rising oil prices. Together they drove the Dow below 10,000. 

 ART HOGAN, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Unfortunately, everyone else is guilty by association.  So Procter misses and our first worry is what are the Dow stocks going to miss? 

 LARRY WACHTEL, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Let`s hold the fort until we get some reinforcements out of earnings, the latter part of March into April. 

 VILES:  Procter & Gamble lost more than $27 a share, accounting for a third of the Dow`s loss.  Other Dow losses read like a who`s who of the so-called old economy, General Electric (URL: http://www.ge.com) , 3M (URL: http://www.mmm.com/) , DuPont (URL: http://www.dupont.com/) and Caterpillar (URL: http://www.caterpillar.com/) . 

 CHARLES LEMONIDES, M&R CAPITAL:  You could very well be very close to a bottom on the Dow and the old economy stocks across the board. They almost price in the worst of all worlds:  higher energy prices, higher inflation, higher interest rates. I don`t think you`re going to get all of  those things over the next 12 months. 

 VILES: This was the Dow`s fourth biggest point loss ever, bringing it to its lowest close since March of last year, now 16 percent off its January peak and the Dow Transports, battered by rising oil prices, are at their lowest level since January 1997. 

 AL GOLDMAN, AG EDWARDS:  Well, nobody knows how low is low, but we think we`ve seen the peak downside intensity and I`m not a numbers freak and whether it`s 10,000 or 9800 or 9600, doesn`t make any difference because you`re not buying the Dow Jones Industrials. You`re buying individual stocks and when you`re acting like this, when the market is this weak, step back, look at the big picture and the big picture in our opinion is still quite positive. 

 VILES:  While the Dow was falling, the Nasdaq briefly blasted through the 5,000 mark and even after closing lower in the blue chip downdraft, the Nasdaq has still more than doubled in the past 12 months. 

 (on-camera):  Most analysts said the Nasdaq`s failure to hold the 5,000 level was not really significant. What did raise eyebrows however was that as the day wore on, the Dow industrials grew weaker, leaving them to close at their lowest level in almost a full year.  Peter Viles, CNN financial news, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY:  Today was not only the worst day of the year for the Dow Industrials, but as we mentioned, it was also one of the worst days ever in terms of points lost.  It ranks in the top five worst point dives in Wall Street history, topped only by the `87 crash and two meltdowns that occurred during the global financial crises of 1997 and `98. Today`s sell off, along with yesterday`s losses, wipe out all of last week`s big gains. The index is now down nearly 15 percent for the year. 

 VARNEY: Ah, but the Dow wasn`t alone in the loser`s circle today.  The S&P 500 fell 35 points. That`s more than 2 1/2 percent. It`s down more than 7 1/2 percent on the year.  Declining issues today swamped advancers by a near 3 to 1 margin, that`s on the big board. It was, by the way, the second busiest trading session ever.  There were 110 stocks that hit new highs. There were 304 that hit new lows.  The Dow Transportation average - that fell more than any other index today, plunging more than 4 1/2 percent, crushed by higher oil prices. 

 The Dow Transports are now at a 3 year low.  But those higher oil prices did give a big boost to oil stocks today.  Light sweet crude soared above $34 a barrel. That`s a fresh 9-year high.  Traders still concerned about whether OPEC will agree to raise output at its meeting on March 27th.  Light sweet crude closed up almost $2 to $34.13 a barrel. That lit a fire under several oil stocks, including Exxon (URL: http://www.exxon.mobil.com/) , Chevron (URL: http://www.chevron.com/) , Texaco (URL: http://www.texaco.com/) and oil services firms like Schlumberger (URL: http://www.slb.com/) and Halliburton (URL: http://www.halliburton.com/) .  Late today however, the American Petroleum Institute said crude oil and gasoline inventories grew unexpectedly last week and one trader said that could put downside pressure on prices tomorrow. 

 BAY:  Exxon Mobil was by far the biggest Dow winner today.  The biggest Dow loser without a doubt, Procter & Gamble. P&G stock plunged more than $27 to  a new, a near 3-year low.   That after the company, behind Pampers, Tide and Cover Girl, blindsided Wall Street with a profit warning. Allan Dodds Frank reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ALLAN DODDS FRANK, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Until Procter & Gamble warned its third quarter profits could be down 10 percent or more, Wall Street had expected earnings would rise 7 to 9 percent. The company blamed this stunning reversal on its failure to anticipate between $170 million to $180 million in higher costs. 

 DURK JAGER, CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE: We are a company that has had very, very reliable earnings over a great number of years and obviously it is a big disappointment to us that we actually retested the credibility of the company in this area. 

 FRANK:  The nation`s leading consumer products company miscalculated costs in three distinct areas:  raw materials, including wood pulp to make diapers, baby wipes and packaging and petroleum based products that  go into detergents and plastic bottles and tubes.  Increased competition in Europe and South America added costs as inventories swelled and a pay off that is yet to come from its new osteoporosis drug which has been delayed in coming to market in the US. 

 CAROL WARNER WILKIE, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: What you buy these stocks for typically is their ability to nail that earnings number. Procter has demonstrated today that it can no longer do that.  It is focused on its top line.  It wasn`t focused on the costs. 

 FRANK: With Procter & Gamble reeling, other consumer goods stocks such as Colgate-Palmolive (URL: http://www.colgate.com/) and Kimberly-Clark (URL: http://www.kimberly-clark.com/) suffered, despite saying they were not similarly affected. 

 DANIEL PERIS, ARGUS RESEARCH: P&G`s earnings warning and then particularly the market reaction, just compounds a phenomenon that we`ve all been absorbing for the past few months where old economy stocks are just getting hammered, regardless of how healthy they are. 

 FRANK:  Procter & Gamble Chairman Durk Jager told MONEYLINE his biggest task now is to restore the market`s confidence in his company`s ability to produce profits. For a company that lost more than $70 billion in market capitalization during the last year, restoring credibility will not be easy. Allan Dodds Frank, CNN financial news, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Taking a look now at how those other consumer product giants fared in P&G`s wake, shares in Kimberly Clark lost nearly 5 1/2. Colgate-Palmolive fell more than 6, even though both companies tried to reassure investors that their profit estimates were on track. Clorox (URL: http://www.clorox.com/) was down almost than 4 and Gillette (URL: http://www.gillette.com/) tumbled more than 2 1/2. 

 VARNEY:  One of only three Dow stocks to end higher today, Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) , rallying after an upbeat assessment from a Wall Street authority on that company.  Goldman Sachs analyst Rich Sherlund met with Microsoft`s chief financial officer last night and he liked what he heard about the business and the possibility of a settlement with the government. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 RICK SHERLUND, GOLDMAN SACHS: Corporate PC sales have been slow since November but it looks like they`re starting to get better now and I think the big cloud on the horizon has been the Department of Justice lawsuit that I`m becoming more optimistic, the longer they engage in discussions, that a settlement may be possible here. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY:   Microsoft stock gained 2 1/4 points today, but it is still down more than 20 percent this year, one of the big high-tech let downs of the year so far. 

 BAY:  Next on MONEYLINE, more on today`s brutal sell off. 

 VARNEY: Is the Dow going beyond the correction into a bear market? We`ll ask strategist Gail Dudack next on MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY:  In tonight`s MONEYLINE focus the Dow Industrials worst session of the year. As we mentioned, Proctor & Gamble was the biggest downer on the Dow. Its more than 27 point decline accounted for 136 points of the Dow`s drop. GE took its own chunk off the Dow more than 37 points. 3M and JP Morgan accounted for more than 20 points each, and our next guest says the volatility is far from over. Gail Dudack joins us now with her outlook. Gail welcome back. 

 GAIL DUDACK, WARBURG DILLON READ: Thank you. 

 BAY: So when you see P&G drop this much and the others follow what does this tell you about the state of the market? 

 DUDACK: Well obviously very nervous and very edgy This is really, it`s almost dysfunctional this decline in Proctor & Gamble. 

 BAY: Dysfunctional how? Analyze this. 

 DUDACK: This is a company with earnings. I mean they`re not going to be earning as much but they still, it`s a great company and to drop 30 percent in a day from a profit warning seems pretty extreme, and I think there are dysfunctional things in this market. 

 BAY: Like, for example? 

 DUDACK: Well the fact that there are other companies with no earnings that are trading, you know moving up 7 percent a day or that some of the really great companies as well in technology are trading at 300 times earnings. These are really not rational kinds of valuations because no stock can really perform that well over time. 

 VARNEY: It must be very, very difficult to analyze a situation like this because it is really new, uncharted territory. I mean we`ve never seen the kind of capital shift out of old economy into new economy stocks that we`re seeing now. How do you analyze it? I mean how do you get a grip on something like this? 

 DUDACK: Well it`s not rational so you can`t use any of the old methods for sure but if you look at other markets that maybe didn`t take place in this country before but other markets that were extreme like the nifty fifty era, for example, the late `60s early `70s was also a new era of its kind, the baby boomers were moving into the work force and they were going to become the consumers of the next 30-40 years and that drove stocks like Polaroid (URL: http://www.polaroid.com/) much higher. 

 VARNEY: I hate to jump in but you know you could liken this market with the markets of Taiwan and Hong Kong in the 1970s and early `80s and they frankly were gambling casinos. 

 DUDACK: You could but I was trying to avoid doing that, Stuart, but you could. 

 VARNEY: But is that how you feel? 

 DUDACK: You could and there I`ll tell you some other similarities. It was the stock market in both of those economies became part of the culture of the economy. I think that people now know that the stock market is part of our culture. 

 VARNEY: Do you think tech stocks are heading for a big slide? 

 DUDACK: I think it`s very hard to justify some of the price movements that are going on here. Yes. 

 BAY: So what triggered that slide? 

 DUDACK: Oh that`s the question everyone asks me. You know, I will tell you one thing, when you talk about a bubble or a financial mania, which is really what we`re talking about here, there are certain things you want to be aware of and you want to be wary of. One is when the Federal Reserve (INAUDIBLE) starts to raise rates, you`re in dangerous territory. I don`t think that we`ve really seen an up tightening yet. The other thing is when you see people borrowing to invest, that`s where the margin debt escalating very high levels in the last four months. 

 BAY: And that worries you? 

 DUDACK: That`s another problem. The catalyst, I don`t know, it might be Greenspan or it might be people looking at this crude oil price. 

 BAY: Gail Dudack, thanks for joining us tonight. 

 DUDACK: My pleasure. 

 VARNEY: Still to come on MONEYLINE a merger made in cyberspace meets a mixed reaction on Wall Street. 

 BAY: Verisign (URL: http://www.verisign.com/)  pays a pretty hefty premium to acquire Network Solutions. We`ll find out why when MONEYLINE returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: As you can imagine, lots of stocks sank to new 52 week lows in today`s down draft including Coca-Cola (URL: http://www.cocacola.com/) , Clorox  (URL: http://www.clorox.com/) , DuPont (URL: http://www.dupont.com/)  , Johnson & Johnson (URL: http://www.jnj.com/) , and UAL (URL: http://www.ual.com) ,  the parent of United Airlines. 

 A block buster deal on the World Wide Web. Verisign will buy Network Solutions (URL: http://www.netsol.com/) for $21 billion in stock. That works out  to $532 a share for Network Solutions. A hefty premium over yesterdays closing price. Network Solutions soared more than 46 1/2 on the news while Verisign tumbled nearly 47 1/2. Greg Clarkin has more. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: One is dominate in domain names, the other secures credit card buys on the Internet, and now they`re getting together in one of the biggest deals the web has seen. Verisign, which provides software to make e-commerce transactions secure, is buying Network Solutions, the place to go to register a name on the net. The deal carries a hefty price tag, $21 billion in stock, and Verisign is paying an almost 50 percent premium in the hopes of becoming a one-stop shop for online start-ups which need to be secure to lure customers. 

 BOB LAM, BEAR STEARNS:  Basically you want to go to the Network Solutions Web sites to get a domain name and set up your Web sites and you also want to make sure the Web site is secure. That`s why you buy the securities solutions from Verisign. So I think longer term there is good synergy here. 

 CLARKIN: Shares of Network Solutions soared on the news while Verisign`s stock fell sharply. The company said it expects to take charges of $18 billion to $20 billion over the next three to five years. Verisign has been growing by acquisition and its stock had been rising giving it a strong currency to do such a deal. But even with the steep price tag, analysts say gaining access to Network Solutions database of more than 8 million registrants was worth it. 

 PAUL MERENBLOOM, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Network Solutions has within their total construct of the registry. That is the database in which all the dot com, dot net, in other words, domains are kept. That registry right now has a four year exclusive control over that database. 

 CLARKIN:  But some analysts question whether a full fledged merger was really necessary. After all these are two companies that have worked closely together in the past and given the lofty price tag, some believe a joint venture may have been smarter. 

 Greg Clarkin, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: A market debut tops tonight`s MONEYLINE movers. Net2000 Communications (URL: http://www.net2000.com/) jumped more than 15 on its first day of trading. It helps firms manage their telecom traffic through a single broad band connection. 

 Abgenix (URL: http://www.abgenix.com/) soared nearly 34. It will give Millennium Pharmaceuticals (URL: http://www.mlnm.com/) extensive access to its technology for creating human antibodies. Abgenix will receive an undisclosed up-front payment plus royalties. 

 EMC (URL: http://www.emc.com/) up almost 7. Merrill Lynch (URL: http://www.ml.com/) repeated a buy rating on this storage provider. It said EMC has underperformed tech stocks this year. 

 Then there`s U S West (URL: http://www.uswest.com/) down 7. Investors raffled by a report from the Center for Financial Research and Analysis which outline the companies  recent accounting changes. 

 Also today uncertainty lingered over the firms deal with Quest Communications. However, the chief executive of U S West says he is still committed to the merger. 

 The Nasdaq asking for more time before it starts quoting share prices in decimals saying it system can`t handle the strain. The Securities Exchange Commission has ordered the switch to take effect this summer, but the booming Nasdaq says it`s already under pressure with daily volume around two billion shares. That`s expected to rise sharply with decimalization quoting prices in pennies rather than fractions. No comment tonight form the SEC. 

 BAY: The productivity of US workers hitting a 7 year high. The Labor Department today announced non-farm productivity jumped 6.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 1999.  At the same time, unit labor costs plummeted 2.5 percent, the biggest drop since the last quarter of 1992. 

 VARNEY: And another bleak day for a sector that`s been hit hard over the past year.  We`re talking about drug stocks, several of the big drug makers  today fell to new 52-week lows, as investors had to move their money into new economy stocks like biotech and genomics. Analysts blame the weakness on political uncertainty, and looming patent expirations on several blockbuster drugs.  Some of the stocks that were hardest hit today include Bristol-Myers Squibb (URL: http://www.bms.com/) , Eli Lilly (URL: http://www.lilly.com/) , Sharing Plow, Merck (URL: http://www.merck.com/) and Pfizer (URL: http://www.pfizer.com/) . 

 BAY: When we come back, every time you surf the Web, every time you buy online, are you inviting disaster? 

 VARNEY: Up next, our special series, "Net Privacy: Who Is Watching You?" 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: They`re called firewalls, digital obstacles designed to prevent the curious or the criminal from finding out about your financial life online. They`re the closest thing the Internet has to bank guards.  The problem is many firewalls are easily breached, and some companies don`t install them at all.  That means that every time you input your credit card  number or make a purchase online, every time you check your bank account online, you risk the equivalent of a digital mugging.  Fred Katayama has the story as part of our continuing MONEYLINE special series, "Net Privacy: Who Is Watching You?" 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: This processor of credit card sales online boasts about its security, but a hacker broke into Salesgate.com`s Web site, stole thousands of credit card numbers, and posted them on  the Web. 

 That same week, leakage is uncovered at Intuit`s (URL: http://www.intuit.com) Quicken.com Web site. Assets, income and other personal financial data were inadvertently transmitted from one of its Web pages to the ad placement agency  DoubleClick (URL: http://www.doubleclick.net) . 

 Whether it`s credit card numbers or income information, headlines like these have Internet users fretting about security, and for good reason. Many Web sites leak because they`re poorly designed.  Gomez Advisors, which evaluates online merchants for service and security, found that more than 100 of the 800 Internet retail sites it surveyed lacked encryption, one of the most basic forms of security. 

 ALEX STEIN, GOMEZPRO.COM: They will actually ask customers to enter credit card and personal information over a nonsecured Internet channel, and that is the same as broadcasting your wallet to strangers worldwide. 

 KATAYAMA: Another 40 percent failed to publish privacy policies explaining  how they would use the data they received. Here`s why security is weak.  Most browsers and Web sites encrypt or encode customer credit card data. Once encrypted, the information is safely transmitted to the merchants` servers.  Once stored in a merchant`s computer, the data may be most vulnerable.  Even though many companies erect some kind of firewall, a computer generated safety barrier, the problem is not all firewalls are truly secure, and these can break in and download the data. 

 TAHER ELGAMAL, CEO, SECURIFY: If you don`t configure it correctly, people can actually penetrate the firewall one way or another and succeed in getting a hold of some internal accounts and some broken passwords, for example.  However, there are a lot of people who don`t even have any firewalls at all. 

 KATAYAMA: What`s more, the one-stop shopping offered by financial supermarkets on the Internet may allow data to be transferred to affiliated merchants that have weaker safeguard and privacy standard. 

 STEIN: Your broker, your bank is likely to encourage you to try to buy a book through their site or to try a different insurance policy through their site. At that point, you`re opening the flood gates and they are sharing your financial information with the other parties. 

 KATAYAMA:  Another complaint: Some Web sites collect more data than is necessary. 

 MARK ROTENBERG, ELECTRONIC PRIVACY INFO CENTER: People who are going to Web sites who just want price information or do a little bit of comparison shopping are effectively being asked to give up their personal information. 

 KATAYAMA: Analysts say online banks and brokerages are generally the most secure because they`re regulated.  The weakest, small merchants. 

 (on camera): But sometimes the best that money can buy will not guarantee security or privacy. One small e-commerce outfit installed the best  computer security technology and updated it frequently, only to have someone walk into its office and walk out with its data base server. 

 Fred Katayama, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: For more about financial security online, check out CNN financial news,.com.   Meanwhile, our series continues tomorrow. Looking for health information on the Web? How would you feel if your boss or coworker was looking over your shoulder? That`s tomorrow on MONEYLINE. 

 "Ahead of the Curve" is next. 

 VARNEY: Yes, you are now watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Today the focus was Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) , tomorrow investors could focus their attention on the economy and the future course of interest rates.  At 2 p.m. Eastern, the Federal Reserve releases it  region by region look at the economy. Also on tap, Fed Chief Alan Greenspan speaks before the Independent Community Bankers of America, and at 3:30 p.m., President Clinton delivers an address on permanent, normal trade relations with China. 

 BAY: That is MONEYLINE for this Tuesday.  I`m Willow Bay. 

 VARNEY: And I`m Stuart Varney.  Good night from New York. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for  user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that  may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this  material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal  transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw370006x




 P&G leads blue chip losses, Microsoft lifts Nasdaq. 

 By Amy Collins 
721 words
7 March 2000
17:07
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 7 (Reuters) - The Nasdaq Composite Index shot past the 5,000 milestone on Tuesday with the aid of software king Microsoft Corp.  while consumer products stalwart Procter & Gamble  led a big selloff in the Dow Jones industrial average. 

 "There's cheers at Nasdaq and growing fears for the blue chips," said Alan Ackerman, the senior vice president and market strategist at Fahnestock and Co. 


By late morning, the Nasdaq	   was up 29 points, or 0.60 percent, at 4,934 after it climbed as high as 5,006.78 shortly after the opening.



Microsoft Corp. , Nasdaq's most heavily weighted share, was up 5-1/4 at 95-7/8 after Goldman Sachs said the software giant's management appears very focused on settling the U.S. government's antitrust lawsuit.



The Nasdaq pierced the 5,000 mark only months after it spiked through the 3,000 milestone in November and 4,000 in December.



"This is the biggest, fastest move for a major index in the history of market indices," Scott Bleier, the chief investment strategist at Prime Charter Ltd said of the Nasdaq's ascent. "It's a panic. It's a frenzy."



The Dow	 , fell after Procter & Gamble Co., the maker of Crest toothpaste and Tide laundry detergent, issued a profit warning and plunged more than 29 percent.



The blue-chip Dow was down more than 3 percent at one point and programme trading curbs were instituted at 10:13 a.m (1513 GMT) at the New York Stock Exchange after its loss exceeded 220 points. The Dow was off 219 points, or 2.18 percent, at 9,949.



A 1-point loss in any of the 30 components of the Dow equals almost 5 points. So P&G's 26-point fall amounted to 128 points of the Dow's slide.



P&G warned it would not meet earnings expectations for the third quarter or full year due to high costs and a delay in the approval of its osteoporosis drug Actonel. Its warning took down other stocks in its sector: Clorox Co  was off 4-5/16 at 35-3/4, Colgate Palmolive dropped 4-1/4 at 48-9/16 and Kimberly Clark  shed 4-9/16 at 46-1/16.



The broad market opened with a rally after the latest economic numbers confirmed that America's investment in technology has paid off in strong productivity and low inflation.



The fourth-quarter productivity number was revised upward to a 6.4 percent gain, compared with the 5 percent increase reported a month ago. Non-farm labour costs dropped 2.5 percent, compared with the 1 percent decline reported a month ago.



Economists polled by Reuters had expected a productivity increase of 6.3 percent and a drop in labour costs of 2.2 percent.



"If you ask yourself why the technology stocks continue to do so well, the answers are in these numbers," said Hugh Johnson, the chief investment officer at First Albany Corp in Albany, N.Y. "The returns on investment (in technology) are so substantial that rising interest rates or worries about the economy don't matter.



The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index	  was down 9 points, or 0.70 percent, at 1,381 but the Russell 2000	  small cap index was up 0.48 of a point, or 0.08 percent, at 602.



Oil, gold, Internet, semiconductor and building material shares were up while transportation, retail, pharmaceuticals, and speciality healthcare were all lower.



The 30-year U.S. Treasury bond was down 6/32 with a yield of 6.15 percent while the 10-year note was up 3/32 with a yield of 6.42 percent.



Breadth was negative with declining stocks outpacing advances by an 8 to 5 margin with more than 477 million shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange. There were 85 stocks at new highs and 163 at new lows.



On the Nasdaq, declining stocks outpaced advances by a 10 to 9 margin with more than 832 million shares trading hands. There were 320 stocks at new highs and 61 at new lows.



(Wall Street Newsdesk + 212 859 1730)).



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw37053jf




 Nasdaq falls prey to Dow's drop after striking 5,000. 

 By Kristin Roberts 
837 words
7 March 2000
22:59
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 7 (Reuters) - Nasdaq was sideswiped on Tuesday, swinging more than 150 points after punching through the 5,000 barrier to close down 1.16 percent as a rattled Dow Jones industrial average dragged Wall Street broadly lower. 

 The Nasdaq composite index .IXIC) fell 57.01 points to 4,847.84 after piercing the 5,000 level in the first minutes of trading. Gains in software giant Microsoft buoyed the index throughout the session and kept the reins on Nasdaq's losses until a late pullback following the plunge in the Dow. 

 Microsoft ended up 2-1/4 at 92-7/8 after Goldman Sachs said the company's management is focused on settling the government's antitrust trial. 

 "You see nervousness with a drop this big," said Larry Rice, chief investment officer at Josephthal Lyon & Ross, referring to the Dow's drop. "But, I'm not considering a 60 point drop in Nasdaq anything to be concerned with." 

 "There's some short covering, a couple of bigger stocks got clipped," he said. "But again, Nasdaq holds up better than anything else." 

 In a near repeat of Monday's action, the technology-driven Nasdaq braked its rally in late trading to fall into negative territory as the Dow Jones industrial average dropped nearly 15 percent from its January high. 

 Strength in Microsoft stock could not slow the Dow's decline. The blue-chip gauge dropped 374.47 points, or 3.68 percent, to 9,796.03. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) fell 35.66 points, or 2.56 percent, to 1,355.62 and the small-cap Russell 2000 index .RUT) lost 6.18 points, or 1.03 percent, to 595.46. 

 There were 2.15 billion shares that changed hands on Nasdaq - among its top three volume days while the New York Stock Exchange logged its second busiest day ever with 1.3 billion. 

 Most sectors slumped with only computer-chip companies holding onto gains. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index .SOXX) closed up 1.6 percent at 1,263.74 and touched an intraday high of 1,290.24. 

 Other groups, which have previously bolstered the index, from Internet and biotech shares to computer hardware and online financials slipped. 

 Still, Nasdaq has been on a rampage this year, coming off a record-breaking 1999. The tech-driven index rose 85 percent last year, spiking through 3,000 in November as an astounding ascent began. 

 The index has climbed 23 percent this year, or 1,000 points in nine weeks. 

 "This is the biggest, fastest move for a major index in the history of the market indices," said Scott Bleier, chief investment strategist for Prime Charter Ltd. "It's a panic. It's a frenzy. And money managers can't get technology stocks fast enough." 

 Investors have become enamoured by technology stocks because many raise funds through venture capital and stock offerings, making them less subject to a slowdown in the current rising interest-rate environment. The gains have left blue-chip stocks in the cold. 

 "If you ask yourself why the technology stocks continue to do so well, the answers are in these numbers," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany Corp. in Albany, N.Y. "The returns on investment (in technology) are so substantial that rising interest rates or worries about the economy don't matter." 

 Inflation worries were only fanned by a profit warning from consumer products giant Procter & Gamble about higher-than-expected costs. 

 "The thing about P&G, which may be different from other profit warnings, is they're citing costs," said Pierre Ellis, senior economist at Primark Decision Economics. 

 "You begin to get the next step in the inflation process. Costs go up, margins narrow and companies are forced to raise prices. That's a little bit of bad news for the Fed," he said, referring to U.S. Federal Reserve's aggressive campaign against inflation. 

 In corporate news, the shares of Web security firm VeriSign Inc. dropped 47-7/16 to 200 after it said it would buy leading Internet domain name registrar Network Solutions Inc. in a stock deal worth $21 billion that would create a one-stop shop for the basic ingredients of electronic commerce. 

 VeriSign's chief executive said the deal would result in significant charges against earnings, which could total $18 billion to $20 billion. 

 Network Solutions surged 46-49/64 to 407-25/64 on the merger news. 

 Canada's CINAR Corp., Nasdaq's biggest percent loser, fell nearly 69 percent or 12-5/8 to 5-3/4, a new low, a day after the children's television producer said its founders resigned. The company's No. 3 executive also was fired after CINAR said he invested $122 million in funds without the board of director's approval. 

 ((Wall Street Desk 212-859-1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw37053g2




 Nasdaq falls prey to Dow's drop after striking 5,000. 

 By Kristin Roberts 
837 words
7 March 2000
22:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 7 (Reuters) - Nasdaq was side-swiped on Tuesday, swinging more than 150 points after punching through the 5,000 barrier as a rattled Dow Jones industrial average dragged Wall Street broadly lower. 

 "You see nervousness with a drop this big," said Larry Rice, chief investment officer at Josephthal Lyon & Ross, referring to the Dow's drop. "But, I'm not considering a 60 point drop in Nasdaq anything to be concerned with." 

 "There's some short covering, a couple of bigger stocks got clipped," he said. "But again, Nasdaq holds up better than anything else." 

 In a near repeat of Monday's action, the technology-driven Nasdaq braked its rally in late trading to fall into negative territory as the Dow Jones industrial average dropped nearly 15 percent from its high. 

 The Nasdaq composite index .IXIC) fell 57.01 points, or 1.16 percent, to 4,847.84 after piercing the 5,000 level in the first minutes of trading. Gains in software giant Microsoft buoyed the index throughout the session and kept the reins on Nasdaq's losses until a late pullback following the plunge in the Dow. 

 Microsoft ended up 2-1/4 at 92-7/8 after Goldman Sachs said the company's management is focused on settling the government's antitrust trial. 

 Still, strength in Microsoft stock did not even slow the Dow's decline. The blue-chip gauge dropped 374.47 points, or 3.68 percent, to 9,796.03. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) fell 35.66 points, or 2.56 percent, to 1,355.62 and the small-cap Russell 2000 index .RUT) lost 6.18 points, or 1.03 percent, to 595.46. 

 There were 2.15 billion shares that changed hands on Nasdaq - among its top three volume days while the New York Stock Exchange logged its second busiest day ever with 1.3 billion. 

 Most sectors slumped with only computer-chip companies holding onto gains. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index .SOXX) closed up 1.6 percent at 1,263.74 and touched an intraday high of 1,290.24. 

 Other groups, which have previously bolstered the index, from Internet and biotech shares to computer hardware and online financials slipped. 

 Still, Nasdaq has been on a rampage this year, coming off a record-breaking 1999. The tech-driven index rose 85 percent last year, spiking through 3,000 in November as an astounding ascent began. 

 The index has climbed 23 percent this year, or 1,000 points in nine weeks. 

 "This is the biggest, fastest move for a major index in the history of the market indices," said Scott Bleier, chief investment strategist for Prime Charter Ltd. "It's a panic. It's a frenzy. And money managers can't get technology stocks fast enough." 

 Investors have become enamoured by technology stocks because many raise funds through venture capital and stock offerings, making them less subject to a slowdown in the current rising interest-rate environment. The gains have left blue-chip stocks in the cold. 

 "If you ask yourself why the technology stocks continue to do so well, the answers are in these numbers," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany Corp. in Albany, N.Y. "The returns on investment (in technology) are so substantial that rising interest rates or worries about the economy don't matter." 

 Inflation worries were only fanned by a profit warning from consumer products giant Procter & Gamble about higher-than-expected costs. 

 "The thing about P&G, which may be different from other profit warnings, is they're citing costs," said Pierre Ellis, senior economist at Primark Decision Economics. 

 "You begin to get the next step in the inflation process. Costs go up, margins narrow and companies are forced to raise prices. That's a little bit of bad news for the Fed," he said, referring to U.S. Federal Reserve's aggressive campaign against inflation. 

 In corporate news, the shares of Web security firm VeriSign Inc. dropped 47-7/16 to 200 after it said it would buy leading Internet domain name registrar Network Solutions Inc. in a stock deal worth $21 billion that would create a one-stop shop for the basic ingredients of electronic commerce. 

 VeriSign's chief executive said the deal would result in significant charges against earnings, which could total $18 billion to $20 billion. 

 Network Solutions surged 46-49/64 to 407-25/64 on the merger news. 

 Canada's CINAR Corp., Nasdaq's biggest percent loser, fell nearly 69 percent or 12-5/8 to 5-3/4, a new low, a day after the children's television producer said its founders resigned. The company's No. 3 executive also was fired after CINAR said he invested $122 million in funds without the board of director's approval. 

 ((Wall Street Desk 212-859-1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw37053b2




 Dow falls to lowest in nearly a year - Nasdaq also hit. 

 By Eric Wahlgren 
1,099 words
7 March 2000
22:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 7 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks crumbled on Tuesday with the Dow Jones industrial average falling to its lowest level in nearly a year after a Procter & Gamble Co. profit warning sparked a sell-off of "old economy" shares. 

 Even the technology-driven Nasdaq Composite Index, which rose above the magic 5,000 level just after the opening, gave in slightly to some nervousness and late selling. The Nasdaq slipped 57.01 points, or 1.16 percent, to end at 4,847.84, after spiking to 5,006 near the opening. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average was whacked by its fourth-biggest point decline ever, falling 374.47 points, or 3.68 percent, to close at 9,796.03. 

 The slide erased all its gains from the past week and pushed it down to its lowest level since March 31, 1999, when the index ended at 9,786.16. More than 1.3 billion shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange, making it the second busiest day on the Big Board. 

 Also hounding stocks, for the second straight day, was Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan's warning on Monday that interest rates will keep going up until the U.S. economy cools down, analysts said. 

 "I think it's the uncertainty of Greenspan - how far is the Fed going to go to crush this market - and P&G validating that the old economy is not worth holding anymore," said Charles Payne, head analyst at Wall Street Strategies, of Tuesday's monstrous slide. 

 The blue-chip Dow fell deeper into correction zone, now off more than 16 percent from its Jan. 14 high of 11,722.98. Wall Street usually defines a correction as a drop of more than 10 percent from a record level. 

 The Dow was dealt a huge blow as shares of P&G, the consumer products giant, plunged 27-7/16 to 60, or more than 31 percent. P&G was the most active stock on the NYSE and represented about 135 points, or more than a third, of the Dow's plunge as a 1-point loss of a Dow component's stock equals a slide in the 30-stock average of almost 5 points. 

 P&G, the maker of Crest toothpaste, Tide laundry detergent, Pampers disposable diapers and Pringles potato chips, warned of disappointing third-quarter earnings early in the day. 

 The Dow's weakness also came from conglomerates General Electric Co., which was off 7-1/2 at 129-15/16, and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, down 4-3/8 at 82-7/8. 

 The one bright spot was the oil giant Exxon Mobil Corp., which flew up 8-1/16 to 81 as oil prices topped $34 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange on mounting supply fears. The spike in the price of oil, a key commodity, further stoked concerns about inflation. 

 Early gains in software giant Microsoft Corp. catapulted the Nasdaq Composite Index past the 5,000 milestone briefly for the first time, but the tech-stacked index fell victim to selling pressure late in the session. 

 Microsoft, Nasdaq's most heavily weighted stock, was off its morning high, but still up 2-1/4 at 92-7/8 after Goldman Sachs said Microsoft's management is focused on settling the antitrust suit brought by the U.S. Justice Department. 

 The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index lost 35.66 points, or 2.56 percent, to 1,355.62. The Russell 2000 small-cap index fell 6.17 points, or 1.03 percent, to 595.47. 

 "This P&G warning reinforces the argument that higher interest rates will affect the 'old economy' stocks, but the 'new economy' is going to sail on," said Chuck Hill, director of research at First Call/Thomson Financial in Boston. 

 P&G blamed higher-than-expected costs for paper and oil, used to make its line of personal care products, as well as a delay in regulatory approval of an osteoporosis drug. 

 "They really highlighted specific problems that have been at the heart of the fears for a lot of investors," said Rick Meckler, the senior managing director at Liberty View in Jersey City, N.J. 

 The broad market had initially opened higher after an economic report confirmed that strong U.S. productivity and low inflation. The fourth-quarter productivity number was revised upward to a 6.4 percent gain, compared with the 5 percent increase reported a month ago. 

 With productivity high, unit labour costs were restrained, declining 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter, which was a much larger decrease than a previous estimate of a 1 percent drop. 

 Economists polled by Reuters had expected a productivity increase of 6.3 percent and a drop in labour costs of 2.2 percent. 

 "If you ask yourself why the technology stocks continue to do so well, the answers are in these numbers," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany Corp. in Albany, N.Y. "The returns on investment (in technology) are so substantial that rising interest rates or worries about the economy don't matter." 

 The 30-year U.S. Treasury bond fell 1/32, with its yield at 6.15 percent, the same as Monday's close. 

 In general, breadth was negative, with declining stocks slamming advances by a more than 2-to-1 margin on the New York Stock Exchange on heavy volume of more than 1.3 billion shares. 

 While several brokerage houses cut their ratings on Procter & Gamble, Merrill Lynch lowered its entire household product and cosmetics sector, citing "poor earnings visibility, changed fundamentals and the negative sentiment." 

 Clorox Co. was off 3-15/16 at 36-1/8. Colgate Palmolive Co., which said it remains comfortable with its earnings estimates for the first quarter and year, dropped 6-1/16 to 46-3/4. 

 Precious metals and oil-related stocks rose as crude oil prices soared while heavy machinery, financial services, airlines and drug stocks all weakened. 

 Moving higher on Nasdaq was Network Solutions Inc., the leading Internet domain name registration company, which rose 46-49/64 to 407-25/64 after Web security firm VeriSign Inc. said it would buy the company in a $17.8 billion deal. VeriSign fell 47-7/16 to 200. 

 Pulling down the Nasdaq were Internet stocks such as Cisco Systems Inc., which lost 4-1/16 to 132-1/16. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw370537z




 RESEARCH ALERT-DLJ cuts Procter & Gamble . 

134 words
7 March 2000
16:15
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 7 (Reuters) - Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette said Tuesday it cut its investment opinion on shares of Procter & Gamble  to market performer after the consumer products giant issued a profit warning. 

 - Alice Longley, analyst at DLJ, dropped Procter & Gamble as its top pick and gave it a new rating of market performance. 

 - No further information was available. 

 - Procter & Gamble said higher-than-expected costs and a delay in U.S. approval of an osteoporosis drug would slash its fiscal third-quarter profits. The warning sent the Dow Jones industrial average down more than 200 points. 

 - Shares of P&G fell 26-1/16 to 61-3/8, a new low. ((-Kristin Roberts, Wall Street Desk, 212-859-1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw37052vt




 Sterling rebounds vs dollar as Dow drops sharply. 

442 words
7 March 2000
16:07
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, March 7 (Reuters) - Sterling rallied across the board late on Tuesday, rebounding from seven-month lows it set against the dollar earlier as it benefited from a sharp decline of the U.S. Dow Jones industrial average. 


The Dow	  dropped more than two percent in early U.S trade after Procter & Gamble Co  issued a profit-warning.


 "Sterling has recovered because of the Dow dropping," said Brian Martin, chief currency economist at Barclays Capital in London. "Also, the euro is in a huge amount of pressure and we have seen euro/sterling come off sharply as well." 

 Sterling gained about a cent on the day to hit its highest level of the week above $1.5820. Earlier in European trade, it fell to $1.5695 , its lowest since July 21, 1999. 


Euro/sterling fell more than half a penny to hit a low of 60.50 pence 	  having been as high as 61.11 pence.



Sterling's earlier decline to seven-month low - for a third consecutive trading day - against the dollar was due to growing speculation that UK rates would remain steady, while the U.S. rate would rise this month.



The Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee was expected to leave rates unchanged at 6.0 percent after the Governor Eddie George and other top policymakers last week said that sterling's strength was doing the job of curbing growth.



In contrast, the U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan on Monday reiterated that U.S. rates will have to be raised in order to stop the economy from overheating, reinforcing the view that U.S. rates would rise by at least 25 basis points from the current 5.75 percent.



"Sterling has come lower in the last couple of days and it's partly because of the fact that the MPC is unlikely to hike rates this month," said Cameron Crise, currency strategist at Warburg Dillon Read in London.



"The Bank is concerned about the strength of currency, which suggests that it won't hike until sterling comes off."



Crise, however, said he does not see much more downside potential for sterling.



"It only takes one big merger to push it back up," he said.



The MPC will announce its decision on British interest rates on Thursday, at the end of its two-day meeting.



British January industrial production data were due out at 0930 GMT on Wednesday but was not seen shedding much more light on a MPC decision.



((Sabrina Ghani, London Capital Markets, +44 171 542 8968, sabrina.ghani@reuters.com)).



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw37052s5




 Nasdaq crosses 5,000 - Dow crumbles on P&G warning. 

 By Amy Collins 
653 words
7 March 2000
15:44
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 7 (Reuters) - The Nasdaq Composite Index shot past the 5,000 mark on Tuesday morning after the latest economic numbers confirmed that America's investment in technology has paid off in strong productivity and low inflation. 

 But in another tale of two indices, the Dow Jones industrial index  , plunged after consumer products giant company Procter & Gamble Co. issued a profit warning and fell more than 29 points. 

 "This is the biggest, fastest move for a major index in the history of market indices," Scott Bleier, the chief investment strategist at Prime Charter Ltd said of the Nasdaq's ascent. "It's a panic. It's a frenzy." 


The Nasdaq Composite Index	   was up 38 points, or 0.79 percent, at 4,943 after it climbed as high as 5,006.78.



Microsoft Corp.  was up 3-1/2 at 94-1/84 after Goldman Sachs said the software giant's management appears very focused on settling the government's antitrust lawsuit.



The Nasdaq pierced the 5,000 mark only months after it spiked through the 3,000 milestone in November and 4,000 in December.



The Dow Jones industrial index	  was down 320 points, or 3.15 percent, at 9,850, due almost entirely to the big selloff in Procter& Gamble.



P&G warned it would not meet earnings expectations for the third quarter or full year due to high costs and a delay in the approval of its osteoporosis drug Actonel.



Analysts noted the sharp divergence of the Nasdaq and Dow.



"It's halfway to the Dow," Barry Hyman, market strategist for Ehrenkrantz, King Nussbaum Inc, said of the Nasdaq. "That is an accomplishment unto itself. Speculation and the use of stock for takeover are what's amazing. The VeriSign deal is creating some excitement for technology. When you see companies like Procter & Gamble saying there is a slower growth rate, there is no wonder that money is moving from slower economy stocks to growth economy stocks."



Among stocks in the news, security software supplier VeriSign Inc.'s announcement it would buy Internet address registration company Network Solutions  in a stock deal valued at $21 billion.



Network Solutions was up 69-3/8 at 430 while VeriSign was down 28-11/16 at 218-3/4.



Pushing the market up at the open was upbeat news on U.S. workers' productivity.



The fourth-quarter productivity number was revised upward to a 6.4 percent gain, compared with the 5 percent increase reported a month ago. Non-farm labour costs dropped 2.5 percent, compared with the 1 percent decline reported a month ago.



Economists polled by Reuters had expected a productivity increase of 6.3 percent and a drop in labour costs of 2.2 percent.



"If you ask yourself why the technology stocks continue to do so well, the answers are in these numbers," said Hugh Johnson, the chief investment officer at First Albany Corp in Albany, N.Y. "The returns on investment (in technology) are so substantial that rising interest rates or worries about the economy don't matter.



The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index	  was down 20 points, or 1.5 percent, at 1,370 but the Russell 2000 small cap index was down 1 point, or 0.15 percent, at 600.



The 30-year U.S. Treasury bond up 5/32 lower with a yield of 6.13 percent, while the 10-year note was up 7/32 with a yield of 6.38 percent.



Breadth was negative with declining stocks outpacing advances by a 14 to 9 margin with more than 263 million shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange. There were 74 stocks at new highs and 121 at new lows.



(Wall Street Newsdesk + 212 859 1730)).



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw37052br




 Big US drug stocks fall with Dow, biotechs slump. 

573 words
7 March 2000
20:41
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 7 (Reuters) - Shares of large U.S. drugmakers as well as biotechnology companies fell Tuesday amid a sharp downturn in the Dow Jones industrial average and profit-taking by biotech investors who have reaped spectacular gains in recent months, analysts said. 

 The American Stock Exchange Pharmaceutical Index, comprised of about a dozen of the largest U.S. drugmakers and several large European firms, was off about 3.75 percent in afternoon trade. The Index is down 15 percent for the year to date. 

 Meanwhile, the Nasdaq Biotech Index, made up of over 200 U.S. and European biotechs, was down about 4.5 percent. Even so, the index is up 73 percent for the year to date, following a 101 percent gain seen in 1999. 

 Investors have been selling shares of large U.S. pharmaceutical companies in recent months and pouring their money into potentially higher-growth biotechs, said Ira Loss, senior vice president of Washington Analysis Corp. 

 But on Tuesday, biotech buying took a breather as investors cashed in some of their bountiful profits. 

 "The biotech stocks have had an enormous upward move, so the fact that some investors are taking some of their money off the table today is not surprising," Loss said. 

 The overall decline in drug stocks eclipsed a 3.1 percent fall in the Dow Jones industrial average, itself made of 30 large U.S. companies across many different industries. A profit warning from one component, consumer products giant Procter & Gamble Co. , helped spur the steep Dow decline. 

 Analysts said concerns about the likelihood of higher interest rates were helping Tuesday to crimp shares of traditional older companies, such as big pharmaceutical companies, while barely hurting computer and Internet stocks. 

 Tuesday's losers included all 10 of the largest U.S. drugmakers, led by New Jersey-based American Home Products Corp. , which dropped 5-7/8 to 41 despite the approval earlier in the day by U.S. regulators of its new haemophilia treatment ReFacto. 

 Warner-Lambert Co. , also based in New Jersey, was down 4-5/8 to 79-5/8 on the New York Stock Exchange. New York-based Pfizer Inc. , which plans to merge with Warner-Lambert, was off 1-9/16 to 30-1/8. 

 Merck & Co. , the largest U.S. drugmaker and a Dow component, fell 2-1/4 to 54-1/4. while New York-based Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  fell 3-3/16 to 43-1/4. 

 The biotech losers included Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. , a Massachusetts-based firm whose shares fell 36-1/2 to 229-1/8. The company specialises in genomics, an especially hot biotech niche that studies the structure and function of genes. 

 Another genomics leader, Human Genome Sciences Inc. , fell 18-9/16 to 179-1/8 - considerably above its 52-week low of 15-1/8. MedImmune Inc. , maker of the popular drug Synagis for prevention of respiratory syncytial virus, fell 23-1/16 to 199. 

 Meg Malloy, senior analyst with Chase Hambrecht & Quist, said no fundamental news drove down shares of biotech companies. 

 "They're not going to go up every day," she said. "There's nothing specific or fundamental driving the giveback today. It's giving back a little after a big run," Malloy said. 

 ((Ransdell Pierson and David Brinkerhoff, Health Desk, 212 859-1736)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3704xk3




 P&G stock hammered after surprise  profit warning . 

 By Marguerite Nugent 
822 words
7 March 2000
20:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CLEVELAND, March 7 (Reuters) - Procter & Gamble Co. learned one of Wall Street's harshest lessons on Tuesday after it caught analysts and investors off guard with a profit warning that sent its stock and those of other consumer products makers in the United States and overseas plummeting. 

 P&G said it expected fiscal third-quarter earnings per share to be down 10 to 11 percent from the year-ago quarter, compared with its prior forecast for a rise of 7 to 9 percent. 

 After the news, investors shaved off nearly one-third off P&G's market value, leaving the stock at its lowest since April 1997 and contributing mightily to a nearly 3 percent drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. It also left the company's chairman, Durk Jager, facing the daunting task of regaining credibility for the Cincinnati-based maker of Tide laundry detergent and Crest toothpaste. 

 "Wall Street doesn't like surprises and this was a surprise,' said one analyst. 

 P&G's shares dropped to a low of 57-8/16 after a delayed opening and were off 27-7/16, or 31.4 percent, at 60 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume was just shy of 40 million shares, compared with a daily average of about 2.8 million. 

 The stock, one of the 30 Dow components, helped drag the U.S. blue-chip gauge sharply lower. It was down 2.91 percent to with an hour to go before the close, with P&G responsible for about half of the decline. 

 P&G blamed the expected earnings shortfall in its third quarter ending March 31 largely on higher-than-anticipated costs and a delay in U.S. approval of an osteoporosis drug. 

 Analysts on average had expected P&G to earn 78 cents a share in the quarter, up from 72 cents a year earlier, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, a firm that tracks such estimates. 

 P&G said earnings for the fourth quarter ending June 30 would likely rise 16 to 18 percent from a year earlier, but the weak third quarter would pull full-year profits below earlier expectations. The company said it now expected earnings per share for the year to be up 7 percent, compared with its previous forecast for a 13 percent rise. 

 Analysts had expected the company to earn $3.21 a share for the year, a 12.6 percent increase over fiscal 1999's $2.85, according to First Call. 

 P&G's Jager said high pulp and petroleum-based raw material costs accounted for about half of the downward revision in the earnings forecast. Petroleum-based materials are used in cleaning supplies such as liquid laundry detergent as well as many personal care products. 

 P&G also cited a shift in a milestone payment and minor asset sales to the April-June period from the January-March period, largely because of a delay in U.S. approval of Actonel, P&G's drug for osteoporosis, a disease that reduces bone mass. 

 P&G said it expected sales growth of 7 to 8 percent for the second half of fiscal 2000. It said it was comfortable with guidance of 6 to 8 percent sales growth in fiscal 2001 and an increase in earnings per share at the upper end of a 13 to 15 percent range. 

 "I am deeply disappointed we have not made more progress in driving profit growth," Jager said. 

 Disappointed indeed. The reorganization, which the company launched last year to spur new products and growth, carried his imprimatur. 

 Still he believes the company is on the right track with that plan, known as Organisation 2005. "Organization 2005 is absolutely right," he said. 

 "We are making changes in the way we launch initiatives to better balance long-term growth and near-term earnings, and are resharpening our focus on cost reduction," Jager said. 

 After the warning, Merrill Lynch postponed a conference call it had planned to discuss household and consumer products companies and later downgraded the stocks, including P&G's. 

 J.P. Morgan lowered its rating on P&G to "long-term buy" from "buy", while Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette cut it from "top pick" to "market performer." 

 Soon after P&G's announcement, U.S. consumer products giants Kimberly-Clark Corp and Colgate-Palmolive Co, in separate statements, said they were comfortable with their quarterly and full-year earnings expectations. 

 In Europe, the P&G announcement hammered consumer goods stocks, with sector indices probing record lows. 

 Shares of two Anglo-Dutch giants of the industry - Unilever and Reckitt Benckiser - were down more than 8 percent. Germany's Henkel fell 2.5 percent. ((Cleveland newsroom 216-579-0077)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3704xf6




 FOCUS - Kimberly,Colgate comfortable with Q1 estimates. 

586 words
7 March 2000
18:54
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 7 (Reuters) - Consumer products giants Kimberly-Clark Corp  and Colgate-Palmolive Co  said on Tuesday that they were comfortable with first quarter and full year earnings expectations after a profit warning from Dow component Procter & Gamble Co . 

 Despite the upbeat earnings outlook for Kimberly-Clark, a company known for its Kleenex, Huggies and Pull-Ups products, and Colgate-Palmolive, shares of both companies fell sharply in the midst of a Dow Jones Industrial Average plunge. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial index fell 254 points to 9,916, reflecting a big selloff in the blue chip index driven by Procter & Gamble's earlier announcement. 

 Procter & Gamble, the maker of Tide detergents and Pamper diapers, plummeted 27-5/16 to a year-low of 60-1/4, while Kimberly-Clark fell 6-1/2 to 44-1/8 - also a 52-week low. 

 Colgate-Palmolive, the maker of dishwashing soap, toothpaste and dozens of other household products, slumped 6-9/16 to 46-1/4 during Tuesday trading. 

 Kimberly-Clark said it expected to post quarterly profits between 76 cents and 80 cents, reflecting a continuing positive momentum, productivity gains and cost controls. 

 Analysts on average are expecting the company to post a 79 cents per share profit for the first quarter, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Kimberly-Clark, known for its Kleenex throwaway handkerchief product, added that it was confident it would show 10 percent earnings per share growth from operations to $3.28 for the full year. 

 "Our positive momentum is continuing, with innovative products, productivity gains and rigorous cost controls driving improved results," said Wayne Sanders, chairman and chief executive officer of Kimberly-Clark. 

 "In anticipation of higher costs for fiber and other raw materials, we have increased selling prices of our tissue products around the world," he added. 

 Earlier, Kimberly-Clark announced a price increase of up to 12 percent to customers of its U.S. away-from-home tissue business. This price increase is effective in April 2000. 

 Colgate-Palmolive also said in a statement that it was confident earnings growth would meet expectations. 

 The First Call/Thomson Financial consensus estimate for Colgate's first quarter earnings is 37 cents per share, compared with 32 cents in the 1999 quarter. Analysts on average see profits per share for the year at $1.67, compared with $1.47 reported for the year-earlier quarter. 

 "With the first two months of the year behind us, we see strong indications for an excellent first quarter, incorporating good worldwide volume growth, significant gross profit increase and double digit EPS growth at least reaching expected levels," said Colgate-Palmolive's Chief Executive Reuben Mark. 

 "Current and projected increases in raw material and other costs will be more than offset by our extensive worldwide cost savings initiatives," he added. 

 Despite the upbeat news from both consumer products companies, Merrill Lynch analyst Heather Hay cut the household and cosmetic sector, including Colgate-Palmolive and Procter & Gamble, due to "poor earnings visibility, changed fundamentals and the negative sentiment in the sector." 

 "We believe Procter & Gamble's pre-announcement this morning carries broader fundamental implications for the group...challenges to the group include higher raw material costs, increased pricing pressures internationally and pressured margins," Hay said. 

 Cosmetics company Avon Products Inc , also downgraded by Merrill, fell 1-1/8 to 27-5/8 on Tuesday. ((Nadja Rogoszynski-New York Newsdesk (212) 859-1700)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3704xb9




 P&G stock hammered after surprise  profit warning . 

 By Marguerite Nugent 
822 words
7 March 2000
20:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CLEVELAND, March 7 (Reuters) - Procter & Gamble Co.  learned one of Wall Street's harshest lessons on Tuesday after it caught analysts and investors off guard with a profit warning that sent its stock and those of other consumer products makers in the United States and overseas plummeting. 

 P&G said it expected fiscal third-quarter earnings per share to be down 10 to 11 percent from the year-ago quarter, compared with its prior forecast for a rise of 7 to 9 percent. 

 After the news, investors shaved off nearly one-third off P&G's market value, leaving the stock at its lowest since April 1997 and contributing mightily to a nearly 3 percent drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. It also left the company's chairman, Durk Jager, facing the daunting task of regaining credibility for the Cincinnati-based maker of Tide laundry detergent and Crest toothpaste. 

 "Wall Street doesn't like surprises and this was a surprise,' said one analyst. 

 P&G's shares dropped to a low of 57-8/16 after a delayed opening and were off 27-7/16, or 31.4 percent, at 60 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume was just shy of 40 million shares, compared with a daily average of about 2.8 million. 

 The stock, one of the 30 Dow components, helped drag the U.S. blue-chip gauge sharply lower. It was down 2.91 percent to with an hour to go before the close, with P&G responsible for about half of the decline. 

 P&G blamed the expected earnings shortfall in its third quarter ending March 31 largely on higher-than-anticipated costs and a delay in U.S. approval of an osteoporosis drug. 

 Analysts on average had expected P&G to earn 78 cents a share in the quarter, up from 72 cents a year earlier, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, a firm that tracks such estimates. 

 P&G said earnings for the fourth quarter ending June 30 would likely rise 16 to 18 percent from a year earlier, but the weak third quarter would pull full-year profits below earlier expectations. The company said it now expected earnings per share for the year to be up 7 percent, compared with its previous forecast for a 13 percent rise. 

 Analysts had expected the company to earn $3.21 a share for the year, a 12.6 percent increase over fiscal 1999's $2.85, according to First Call. 

 P&G's Jager said high pulp and petroleum-based raw material costs accounted for about half of the downward revision in the earnings forecast. Petroleum-based materials are used in cleaning supplies such as liquid laundry detergent as well as many personal care products. 

 P&G also cited a shift in a milestone payment and minor asset sales to the April-June period from the January-March period, largely because of a delay in U.S. approval of Actonel, P&G's drug for osteoporosis, a disease that reduces bone mass. 

 P&G said it expected sales growth of 7 to 8 percent for the second half of fiscal 2000. It said it was comfortable with guidance of 6 to 8 percent sales growth in fiscal 2001 and an increase in earnings per share at the upper end of a 13 to 15 percent range. 

 "I am deeply disappointed we have not made more progress in driving profit growth," Jager said. 

 Disappointed indeed. The reorganization, which the company launched last year to spur new products and growth, carried his imprimatur. 

 Still he believes the company is on the right track with that plan, known as Organisation 2005. "Organization 2005 is absolutely right," he said. 

 "We are making changes in the way we launch initiatives to better balance long-term growth and near-term earnings, and are resharpening our focus on cost reduction," Jager said. 

 After the warning, Merrill Lynch postponed a conference call it had planned to discuss household and consumer products companies and later downgraded the stocks, including P&G's. 

 J.P. Morgan lowered its rating on P&G to "long-term buy" from "buy", while Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette cut it from "top pick" to "market performer." 

 Soon after P&G's announcement, U.S. consumer products giants Kimberly-Clark Corp  and Colgate-Palmolive Co , in separate statements, said they were comfortable with their quarterly and full-year earnings expectations. 

 In Europe, the P&G announcement hammered consumer goods stocks, with sector indices probing record lows. 

 Shares of two Anglo-Dutch giants of the industry - Unilever   and Reckitt Benckiser  - were down more than 8 percent. Germany's Henkel fell 2.5 percent. ((Cleveland newsroom 216-579-0077)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3704vik




 FOCUS - UK wholesale price worries hit power sector. 

 By David Holmes and Andrew Callus 
816 words
7 March 2000
17:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, March 7 (Reuters) - Shares in companies with British power generating capacity dived on Tuesday as three key players said weak wholesale prices would hit earnings. 

 Winter prices in the forward electricity market have dropped by nearly 15 percent in the past month. 

 Uncertainty surrounding the introduction of industry regulator Ofgem's new Electricity Trading Arrangements (NETA) in October, strengthening competition, warm weather and the prospect of more capacity coming onstream are all blamed for the slump. U.S.-based Entergy Corp on Tuesday said it now saw 2000 earnings per share to the low end of its forecast range of $2.35-2.45 per share, as a direct result of its UK exposure. 

 Its warning came hot on the heels of identical ones on Monday from Edison, another U.S. player with UK capacity, and UK nuclear generator British Energy. 

 Edison slashed its 2000 earnings per share projection to $1.90-$2.10, from $2.20-$2.30. "These issues...have contributed to lower first quarter 2000 prices and a drop of 20 percent in the forward electricity price curve for the remainder of the year," it said. 

 Edison shares closed down more than 30 percent at $17-15/16 on Monday and dropped another $1-13/16 on Tuesday morning. British Energy's warning alluded mainly to the effects of maintenance outages at some of its nuclear plants, but it added that "income for the year (200-2001) will also be influenced by the outcome of the current (April) and subsequent contract rounds, as well as by pool prices and the transition to NETA. 

 "Contract prices continue to reduce in face of increased competition through all sectors of the market," it said. 

 POWERGEN DOWN 17 PERCENT, BRITISH ENERGY DOWN 14 PERCENT 

 British Energy and another major UK generator, PowerGen Plc, led UK sector share prices lower on Tuesday with drops of 17 and 14 percent respectively. 

 "The most exposed generator is British Energy with its large, inflexible nuclear plants," said broker Dresdner Kleinwort Benson which cut its stance to "reduce" from "hold". 

 PowerGen's problems were exacerbated by its likely ejection from the FTSE 100 index this week. Its place is expected to be taken by one of several high-tech stars now worth considerably more than the "old economy" utility. 

 PowerGen's UK rival National Power Plc fared slightly better, closing only seven percent lower. A spokesman said it would not be issuing a profit warning. 

 UK-based generators, separated from distribution and supply by privatisation in 1990, have all been busy acquiring retail supply assets as a hedge against just such a price slide. 

 National Power was among the first to do so. 

 NATIONAL POWER WAS READY 

 "We foresaw the price falls and this is not outside our expectations by any means," said the spokesman. "We have rebalanced our whole business through acquisition, we have fully contracted cover through the NETA changeover period, and over the years we have developed well honed risk management and trading expertise." 

 Nevertheless, dealers said the retreat had snuffed out a rally from last month's near seven year lows in a sector which have sharply underperformed the broad UK market in the past year. 

 Merrill Lynch downgraded four U.S. power companies exposed to the UK following the Edison warning, cutting Edison, AES Corp, TXU Corp and Entergy Corp to "neutral" from "accumulate" because of their exposure to the UK market. 

 FALLING UK WHOLESALE PRICES 

 Britain's energy regulator Ofgem has said wholesale UK electricity prices could fall by up to 25 percent as NETA bring more competition. 

 Last year, the government decided to reform the electricity pool and introduce NETA after complaints from industrial buyers that generators were able to manipulate prices. Analyst Phillip Green at Goldman Sachs said the market expects the April round of new contract arrangements between generators and retailers of electricity will see pricing cuts of between 10 and 20 percent, with a similar degree of cuts in the more significant October round. 

 With the market enthusiasm for high tech stocks already damaging their ratings, even the generators' appeal as defensive plays are now tarnished by the price situation. "There is no utility security in that," said Green. 

 Warburg Dillon Read analysts downgraded their forecasts for wholesale prices last week. 

 "We now take a very conservative stance on prices - down 20 percent in two years," it said. 

 Warburg said some market participantas seem to have delayed signing new contract cover for the April round, and that competition was increasing due to the disposals of coal-fired plant forced on the UK generators by regulator Ofgem. 

 Forward contracts are also trading at a very low price of 2.1-2.2 pence per kilowatt hour, the broker said. 

 (additional reporting by Dominique Magada). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3704v45


 Business 
 MONEYLINE 

 Stuart Varney, Willow Bay, Susan Lisovicz, Charles Molineaux, Bill Dorman, Bob beard, Wolf Blitzer, Allan Dodds Frank, Fred Katayama, Peter Viles, Greg Clarkin, Bruce Francis 
8,240 words
1 March 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  Tonight, takeover talk lights up Wall Street, as stocks from Aetna (URL: http://www.aetna.com/)  to SBC Communications (URL: http://www.sbc.com/) to Qwest Communications (URL: http://www.qwest.net/) rocket in a swirl of speculation. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE: The Nasdaq`s most active stock? 3Com (URL: http://www.3com.com/) , soaring ahead of the most anticipated IPO of the year, Palm Pilot. 

 VARNEY: And Michael Armstrong, the first in our new "Headliner" series, an in-depth talk with the man who shook AT&T (URL: http://www.att.com/) to its core. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR, live from New York and Los Angeles. 

 BAY: I`m Willow Bay in Los Angeles. 

 VARNEY: And I`m Stuart Varney in New York. 

 Coming up, more evidence showing that four interest rate hikes have done little to slow this runaway economy. 

 BAY: And I`ll talk with two Hollywood power brokers helping to bring the big screen online. 

 VARNEY: But first, the buzz that set off a fury of buying today on Wall Street. Yesterday, it was all about chip stocks. Today, it was all about takeover talk, from health care, to telecom, to the wireless business. 

 Susan Lisovicz reports from the New York Stock Exchange. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Whispers of merger talks translated into heavy buying, as investors bid up potential deal makers. Aetna confirmed a report that WellPoint (URL: http://www.wellpoint.com/) and Dutch investment bank ING  Group are hoping to buy the insurance giant in a stock and cash deal worth $10 billion. Aetna shares soared more than 12 points after being halted midday, WellPoint tumbled more than 5 1/2, and ING ADRs edged slightly higher. 

 And investors gave a ringing endorsement to telecom stocks. BellSouth (URL:http://www.bellsouthcorp.com/) and SBC Communications are said to be in talks to combine their wireless operations. If the connection is made, the new entity could blanket most of the U.S., which means more formidable competition against AT&T and Sprint`s (URL: http://www.sprint.com) PCS Group. 

 MEL MARTEN, EDWARD JONES: SBC has been very weak lately, and we think that`s because SBC is clearly one of the -- going to be one of these leading handful of telecom companies, you know, one of the largest wireless networks, the largest local footprint, but they haven`t been getting the respect or valuation for that. 

 LISOVICZ: Shares of SBC gained almost 4 and BellSouth rose more than 2. And more telecom takeover talk -- Europe`s largest phone company, Deutsche Telekom (URL: http://www.dtag.de/) , is in talks to buy Qwest Communications and U.S. West. Qwest is already in the process of buying U.S. West for $39 billion. Qwest surged more than 12, U S West (URL: http://www.uswest.com/) gained almost 7. 

 Joseph Battipaglia says telecoms and techs will push the Nasdaq to 5,000 by year`s end. 

 JOSEPH BATTAPAGLIA, GRUNTAL & CO.: We want to be 100 percent invested and we think we have the right sectors by overweighting telecom and tech. Whether we revise that to 5,500 or beyond is gravy, because if you`re participating this way, you`re getting the full benefit of the rise up. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 LISOVICZ: And techs the major story in today`s rally. Lucent, the nation`s most widely held stock, soared more than 8 1/2 after announcing it will spin off three of its slow-growing businesses. And Micron Technology (URL: http://www.micron.com/) added another 6 today after soaring 19 yesterday. 

 I`m Susan Lisovicz, reporting live from the New York Stock Exchange. 

 BAY: Telecom stocks ignited another tech-powered rally, but it didn`t help the Dow much. The blue chips bobbed in and out of the plus column all day and ended with a 9-point gain to close at 10,137. But call it the lucky 13th for the Nasdaq, today smashing its 13th record of the year. The Nasdaq rocketed another 87 points to close above 4,700 for the first time, a record 2.2 billion shares changed hands. 

 Charles Molineaux is standing by live at the Nasdaq market site with more -- Charles. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Yes, record volume for the Nasdaq, Willow. Investing analysts point out that three quarters of  the money going into equity funds is going into aggressive growth funds and the favored vehicle for growth is tech. The Nasdaq Composite wobbled over a range of about 50 points, almost always above 4,700. It was never not in negative territory -- in record territory rather. 

 Biotechs blazed a path straight up 3.6 percent. Epimmune (URL: http://www.cytelcorp.com/) off 34 percent. Chiron Corporation  (URL: http://www.chiron.com/) went great guns after a second straight day of good news about its search for vaccines for meningitis, hepatitis and AIDs. Telecommunication stocks were close behind. Western Wireless (URL: http://www.wwireless.com/) had a great day. Advanced Lighting Technologies (URL: http://www.adlt.com) doubled after announcing its getting into fiber-optic communications. 

 Computer stocks were up almost 2 percent. Hytek (URL: http://www.hytek.com/) Microsystems blasted off 35 percent. Apple Computer (URL: http://www.apple.com/) shown after an analyst report that some of its new products are selling better than expected. 

 And financial stocks rallied 2 percent. Wit Capital (URL: http://www.witcapital.com/) picked up 4 percent, and E*TRADE (URL: http://www.etrade.com/) traded up on the second straight strong day for the online brokerages enjoying the market`s blistering volume. That also helped lift Internet stocks up almost 2 percent. 

 Reporting from the Nasdaq market site, Charles Molineaux, CNN. 

 VARNEY: More evidence today that the economy is firing on all cylinders. The latest figures on construction spending, manufacturing activity, and auto sales blowing away expectations. Along with those reports of robust growth, however, is evidence that prices for raw materials are rising, news that only gives the Federal Reserve more reasons to keep raising interest rates. 

 Bill Dorman reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BILL DORMAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Work at U.S. factories is still picking up. The National Association of Purchasing Management says manufacturing activity increased in February for the thirteenth month in a row. The NAPM report also shows companies are paying more for raw materials. That caps a year of nearly steadily increasing costs, and puts that inflation measure at its highest level in five years. 

 BRIAN FABBRI, ECONOMIST, PARIBAS: This cost picture, if you will, is basically as bearish for prices, costs and inflation down the road as it has ever been. It does tell us that there`s a warning sign going off. 

 DORMAN: Construction spending in January rose faster than it has in nearly two years, hitting a new monthly record of nearly $752 billion. Construction has bounced back from a summer downturn, and the recent increases range from roads to commercial buildings and private houses, despite rising interest rates. 

 DAVID SEIDERS, NATL. ASSN. OF HOME BUILDERS: What the Fed really wants to get to first is the housing part, particularly the single family market, which is supposed to be the most interest sensitive part of the U.S. economy. So far, not much evidence that the single- family housing market has been affected. 

 DORMAN: Another part of the old economy that`s still powering ahead: auto sales. February brought record U.S. sales for Ford (URL: http://www.ford.com/) , Honda (URL: http://www.honda.co.jp/) , and Toyota (URL: http://www.gm.com) . 

 MARILYN SCHAJA, DONALDSON, LUFKIN & JENRETTE: The numbers continue to indicate that the economy is very strong, whether you look at the construction industry, the manufacturing sector, consumer spending, the labor market. We`re seeing a very strong economy and some preliminary signs that inflation is picking up. 

 DORMAN (on camera): And when Alan Greenspan looks at these numbers, they are likely to confirm what he`s already been saying: interest rates are heading higher. 

 Bill Dorman, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: The bond market shrugged off today`s stronger-than-expected reports. The Treasury`s 10-year note edged up a quarter point in price, the 30-year Treasury bond fell 9/32, and that pushed the yield back up a little to 6.15 percent. 

 BAY: Bond prices held steady, despite another jump in oil prices. Light sweet crude soared $1.34 to $31.77 a barrel, that is a new nine-year high. That surge came despite word that the OPEC oil cartel will produce more oil for the world market. 

 From Washington, Bob Beard reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BOB BEARD, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Back from a week of diplomacy, Energy Secretary Bill Richardson told Congress the odds are good OPEC ministers will vote this month to pump more crude. 

 BILL RICHARDSON, U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY: They will make their collective decision, but I think the signs are good. They`re positive. That`s good for us. 

 BEARD: With world demand outpacing supply by 2 million barrels every day, oil prices have spiked, and House members accused the administration of ignoring OPEC production cuts. 

 DANA ROHRABACHER (R), CALIFORNIA: We are being screwed by people that we`ve defended and we`ve got troops there defending them right now. 

 BEARD: Proposed legislation would threaten to cut off billions of dollars in economic aid and arms sales to OPEC members and other oil exporters. Richardson opposes it, but some members of Congress also want to draw oil from the government`s strategic petroleum reserve to lower prices. President Clinton`s not ruling it out, but Richardson wants to give diplomacy a chance. 

 RICHARDSON: I`m not prepared to recommend that those steps be taken yet, but we`re not ruling out any options. 

 BEARD: Some experts say diplomacy is working, but aren`t looking for quick changes because OPEC needs time to negotiate production increases with its 10 members. 

 WILFRID KOHL, JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY: The consensus is building in OPEC that they have overshot, that the higher prices are going to have a negative impact on the world economy and on oil demand. 

 BEARD (on camera): Oil ministers from Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and Mexico meet tomorrow in London. They could work out a proposal to increase OPEC`s production. 

 Bob Beard, CNN Financial News, Washington. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Coming up on MONEYLINE, with the Nasdaq soaring and the Dow sliding, where`s this market really headed? Global equity strategist Tim Hayes of Ned Davis Research tells us what he thinks, that`s next. 

 And later on this program, the corporate risk taker who rocked an old-line giant. Meet Michael Armstrong of AT&T, as we launch a new series, "Headliners." 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: More now on the Nasdaq`s record-setting streak. Today`s rally puts the index more than 17 percent higher in the year 2000, how about that? But the Dow and the S&P 500 are both down sharply. 

 Our guest tonight has, rather, an interesting approach to this tale of two markets, as you might say. Tim Hayes, global strategist for Ned Davis Research. He joins us now from Tampa, Florida. 

 Ned, welcome to the program. 

 TIM HAYES, NED DAVIS RESEARCH: Thanks, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Now, look, the whole world is out there buying tech stocks, but you have a different approach. You`re running for cover. You`re saying put some of your money into utilities. I haven`t met anybody who bought a utility stock in years. Make your case please? 

 HAYES: Well, basically, that gets back to our market outlook, which is very defensive. We believe you should have a heavy cash position, given the market risks. And historically, utilities have held up extremely well in bear markets relative to any other part of the market. And this, we saw even in 1998, people might argue that deregulation might have changed the role of utilities. But essentially, they`ve been tried and true over the years as an excellent place to put money during a bear market. 

 VARNEY: But, when you say bear market, you`re talking about a bear market in these old economy stocks, are you? 

 HAYES: That`s right. The old economy stocks, actually, the broad market has been down about 25 percent, according to the average stock, since April of 1998. But, yes, the old economy stocks and we`re very cautious toward the new economy stocks in the Nasdaq, given  the extremely high valuations, and the fact that the old economy stocks have responded to interest rates, which historically has been the case with four interest rate increases, that`s what you normally would expect to see. 

 The fact that the Nasdaq has risen to such high valuations, completely ignoring this, is really something to be concerned about. At some point it`s going to... 

 VARNEY: Are you saying flat-out, sell those biotechs, sell the dot.coms, sell the Internet, sell the over-valued high-techs. Are you saying flat- out sell them? 

 HAYES: No, we`re not saying sell them. In fact, we have a momentum based approach which says stay with them. But when you see the momentum drop out and when they start to drop in our rankings, which would be a sign that they are starting to lose that momentum, I would get out. 

 What I would say is, I probably would not be buying them at as levels, I`d be starting to look at -- stay defensive with something like utilities and then, later on, start to look into the value-oriented area of the market. 

 VARNEY: Can you give me a high-dividend-yield utility stock with little downside and some upside potential? 

 HAYES: I can`t do that, Stuart, unfortunately. 

 VARNEY: I wish you could. All right, Ted Hayes from Ned Davis Research. We thank you very much for being with us on MONEYLINE. Thank you. 

 HAYES: Thank you. 

 VARNEY: Back to you, Willow. 

 BAY: Thank you, Stuart, 

 Tiffany (URL: http://www.tiffany.com/) is benefiting from the strong economy reporting better than expected profits. The high-end jewelry retailer today said forth-quarter profits jumped 59 percent to $84 million, driven by strong sales during the holiday season. Tiffany up 4 1/4 up 125 percent over the past 52 weeks. 

 E-commerce topping other corporate news tonight. On-line travel agency Expedia (URL: http://www.expedia.com/) said, it would take a charge of up to $6 million to cover fraud costs. Expedia said stolen credit card numbers were used to book reservations at its site. 

 A high-placed defection in Web retailing, as The Gap (URL: http://www.gap.com/) loses its on-line chief and CEO of Banana Republic, Jean Jackson, who`s leaving to become chief executive at Wal*Mart.com (URL: http://www.wal-mart.com/) . 

 And Web auction house eBay (URL: http://www.ebay.com/) inks a deal with Wells Fargo (URL: http://www.wellsfargo.com/) for its on-line sellers to be able to accept credit cards. Up to now, sellers peddling their wares on eBay have had to settle for payment by personal check or money order. No word on terms of the deal. Wells Fargo up 1 5/8. eBay soared 5 7/8. 

 VARNEY: News today in the insider trading case against former Wall Street banker James McDermott. He is alleged to have passed on  news of pending bank mergers to adult film queen Marylin Star. McDermott today appeared in court for a pretrial hearing. 

 Now this as the United States formally asked Canada to extradite Marylin Star, whose real name is Kathryn Gannon (ph). MONEYLINE has learned that U.S. prosecutors had hoped to strike a deal with Gannon, who`s believed to be living in Western Canada. McDermott`s trial will get underway in two weeks. 

 BAY: Coming up next: Two stars of the entertainment industry, Frank Biondi and Howard Weitzman, in a digital bid to remake the way you get your entertainment. That`s next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Several brokerage stocks hit 52-week highs today. They include: Goldman Sachs (URL: http://www.gs.com/) , Merrill Lynch (URL: http://www.ml.com/) , Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (URL: http://www.msdw.com/) . Also hitting new highs: Apple Computer and Corning  (URL: http://www.corning.com/) . 

 In tonight`s "Tech Watch," a bold new move to deliver movies over the Web. Two Hollywood power players have teamed up to create Massive Media Group, a digital middle man helping to bring the entertainment industry on-line. 

 Joining us now to discuss the deal, former Viacom (URL: http://www.viacom.com/) and Universal studio chief Frank Biondi and Howard Weitzman, Universal`s former executive vice president. 

 Gentlemen, welcome. 

 Frank, why don`t you start by explaining what your role is? What does mean to be a digital middleman? 

 FRANK BIONDI, CHMN., MASSIVE MEDIA GROUP: Willow, the Internet presents an enormous opportunity for people who own entertainment or intellectual property. 

 BAY: People who make movies, people who make television shows. 

 BIONDI: And CDs, music, what have you. The big problem now, is how do you protect it once you have sold it because you have a perfect digital copy, if you are a legitimate consumer, but you can e-mail it all over the net. So at its most simplest question, this technology protects the copyrighted material, and that you can e-mail it around the net. But you have to go through a variety of protocols as the receiver of that e-mail to open it up and either watch it, or play it or use it. 

 BAY: Protocols meaning you have to pay for it? 

 BIONDI: Probably. But you could accept advertising or other forms of compensation. 

 BAY: Now you have alliance with a technology provider, InterTrust (URL: http://www.intertrust.com/) . So what is your role? 

 BIONDI: We`re basically a franchisee, a licensee of InterTrust. We use their code, and we customize it, principally for the advertising and the entertainment business, for particular uses of each of our potential customers. So our job is really to sell, customize the interfaces and then support the application. 

 BAY: You package it all? 

 BIONDI: Exactly. 

 BAY: Howard, who are your clients? 

 HOWARD WEITZMAN, CEO, MASSIVE MEDIA GROUP: Well, I can not say who the clients are. I can say they are the biggest content providers in the world, or we hope they will be. And the whole concept is to make the content providers and owners the intellectual property feel secure about using this new area of distribution, the Internet. 

 BAY: How will you make money? Do you sell the advertising? 

 WEITZMAN: No, we do not sell the advertising. We basically, as you said, package it and put the parties together. We`ll get a mini financial piece, percentage of the financial transactions, and we`ll ask for a fee for services, and for the applications and integration of what we build. 

 BAY: Now one of the other things that`s unusual about this technology, as I understand it, is that it`s essentially what I call like a Tupperware party; it can be forwarded to other users. What`s the advantage of that, from your -- from where you sit? 

 BIONDI: Well actually, probably the most powerful marketing phenomenon on the Internet is today is what`s called viral marketing. People e-mail popular pieces of either film, jokes, others e-mails to other friends. This you can do with software now, with movies, CDs or other forms of intellectual property. And you take advantage of the built-in facility in the Net itself: e-mailing. 

 BAY: When am I going to be able to do this on my home PC? 

 WEITZMAN: Well, it`s a matter of when we get the product built, but I would say the end of the summer this year, third quarter, and the beginning of fourth quarter in 2000. 

 You know, I just want to say, the key to all this is that the lockbox concept travels with the content. So when a user gets the content lawfully, you now have paid for it. You can`t virally  send it all over the Net. 

 BAY: Why has Hollywood been slow to embrace digital transmission of their content? 

 BIONDI: Well, in a short sentence, nobody wants to be the person that makes the wrong decision that blows the whole business, because once your product`s out there, and it can be exploited by essentially being e-mailed free around the Internet, not many people  are going to pay for it. 

 BAY: Gentlemen, real quick question: As former Universal executives, likely that we`ll see some sort of deal. We`ve had a lot of buzz about Seagram (URL: http://www.seagram.com/) . 

 BIONDI: I don`t know. I`m not there anymore. Never is a long time. But there is a lot of talk. 

 BAY: OK, thank you. 

 (LAUGHTER) 

 BIONDI: Thanks. 

 WEITZMAN: Thanks. 

 BAY: Put on the spot so politely. 

 For more on the tech sector and tech stock news, check out CNNfn.com --Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Up next on MONEYLINE, another shooting shocks the country. This time it`s in Pennsylvania. We`ll bring you that story and more of the day`s headlines after this break. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Checking the news outside the world of business, we turn to Wolf Blitzer for the MONEYLINE news digest -- Wolf. 

 WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: Thanks. Stuart. CNN has learned the Pentagon is considering a plan to send 550 U.S. troops to Mozambique and South Africa on a flood-relief mission. An estimated one million people have been displaced by the flooding, with thousands more still trapped. The decision could come from Washington as early as tomorrow. 

 Near Pittsburgh, a suspect is in custody, but two people are dead and three seriously injured after a shooting rampage today. Police say a gunman opened fire at two fast food restaurants, then took hostages before surrendering. 

 In Michigan, police are holding two men following yesterday`s school shooting. Prosecutors believe the men may be linked to the gun allegedly fired by a first-grader, killing a 6-year-old classmate. 

 Also tonight, the Atlanta Braves will be seeing pitcher John Rocker sooner rather than expected. An arbitrator has cut Rocker`s suspension in half and wiped out his spring training ban. 

 Now checking the race for the White House, Republican George W. Bush is celebrating three victories in Virginia, North Dakota and Washington State. John McCain says he`ll win back lost ground on Super Tuesday. 

 And Democrat Bill Bradley is promising to hang on for Super Tuesday, despite a substantial loss in Washington State to Al Gore. 

 Please join us tonight as the Democratic presidential hopefuls face off in a debate sponsored by CNN and "The Los Angeles Times." That`s live from Los Angeles at 9:00 p.m. Eastern, 6:00 p.m. Pacific -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Wolf, is there a lot of pressure on Bill Bradley to drop out? 

 BLITZER: There is some pressure. He says that he has not been told by any of his closest advisers or supporters to drop out. But certainly, if he does not do well next Tuesday -- and most polls show he will not do well next Tuesday -- the pressure will, of course, intensify. 

 VARNEY: More on politics tonight at 8:00 p.m. Eastern with Wolf on "THE WORLD TODAY." 

 Still lots more to come here on MONEYLINE. 

 BAY: I`ll have in-depth coverage on the stock that pushed the Nasdaq above 4700 for the very first time. 

 VARNEY: I`ll bring you my talk with one of the titans of telecom, AT&T`s Michael Armstrong, in our new "Headliners" feature. 

 BAY: Stay with us. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s "Headlines": takeover talk on Wall Street fires up today`s biggest winners. From Aetna, to Qwest to SBC Communications, we`ll cover it all for you. The most widely held stock, $27 billion more valuable tonight. Lucent revamps itself, two months after a major earnings disappointment. And a new MONEYLINE feature: "Headliners." Tonight: Michael Armstrong, the man who turned Ma Bell into Ma Cable. 

 BAY: First, more on our top story: the nation`s largest health insurer, at a crossroads, in more ways than one. On the eve of a major management transition, Aetna has become a takeover target. The offer came from a smaller HMO, WellPoint Health Networks, and ING America Insurance Holdings. The price tag: $70 a share or about $10 billion, a very rich premium. 

 The stock was halted, but not before a television report about the offer drove it up 11 7/8. Allan Dodds Frank has more. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ALLAN DODDS FRANK, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Aetna, the insurer that built the nation`s largest managed health care business through acquisitions, is now the hunted, not the hunter. The Hartford, Connecticut based company is considering a ten billion dollar takeover offer from WellPoint Health Networks and ING America Insurance Holdings. The takeover offer, made last week, preceded by one day the resignation of Aetna`s hard-driving chairman Richard Huber. That left the deal on the table for Huber`s replacement, William Donaldson, a long-time Aetna board member, who co-founded the Wall Street firm Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think Aetna was just ripe, and there had been so many discussions about this type of thing. Mr. Donaldson is clearly shareholder focused and it doesn`t surprise me that somebody decided to step in and at least take a whack at it. 

 DODDS FRANK: For Aetna shareholders, the $70 a share offer would bring the company`s stock valuation back in line with those of its competitors such as Cigna (URL: http://www.cigna.com/) . Beleaguered by class-action lawsuits and concerns the company is having trouble integrating acquisitions, such as Prudential`s health care unit, Aetna`s stock has dropped from nearly $100 to about $40 a share in the last year. 

 Aetna currently has 21 million health care customers and a total customer base of 47 million people. 

 WellPoint has more than seven million medical customers and a total of nearly 30 million people receiving some specialty medical care through Blue Cross of California and other associates. 

 (on camera): When he took over as Aetna`s chairman, veteran dealmaker William Donaldson said he was reviewing all the company`s option. Aside from accepting this offer, that could include restructuring, looking for another buyer or selling off the company`s three main lines of businesses separately to the highest bidders. 

 Allan Dodds Frank, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: And here is another big winner today: America`s most widely held stock, Lucent (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) . It jumped 8.5 or 14 percent, and was the Big Board`s most actively traded stock, amazing, 77 million shares changed hands. 

 Lucent is spinning off some of its slow-growing businesses, a welcome move at a tough time for this company. 

 Fred Katayama reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Lucent`s stock surged after the company said it would spinoff its slower-growing businesses so it can focus on the fastest growing areas. 

 MICHAEL NEIBERG, CHASE HAMBRECHT & QUIST: With the higher stock price that Lucent now has, it will be easier for them to buy companies. And with the companies that they would buy, it would, hopefully, even further increase their growth rate. 

 KATAYAMA: America`s most widely held stock shot up 14 percent today. Lucent had stumbled more than 17 percent in early January, when it issued a profit warning, and admitted it underestimated demand for fiberoptics equipment, losing some customers to Nortel Networks (URL: http://www.nortelnetworks.com/) Networks. 

 Regarding the spin-off, Lucent Chairman Rich McGinn told MONEYLINE, "It`s a strategic choice for us to maximize business for both enterprises. The growth rates of the businesses we`ll spin off are not in line with Lucent`s growth profile." 

 Leaving Lucent: its switchboard operations, wire-cable manufacturing, and local area networks for businesses, which grew less than four percent last year. The new company will have $8 billion in revenues and 34,000 employees. It doesn`t have a name yet, but it does have clients, including more than 90 percent of the Fortune 500. 

 The leaner Lucent will focus on communications networking, with its fast growing optical and data networking businesses, with sales of $30 billion and a staff of 116,000. 

 DAVID TOUNG, ARGU RESEARCH: One of the issues we saw with Lucent was growth, specifically meeting demand for the customers for optical products. And this particular spin-off doesn`t address that question. 

 KATAYAMA (on camera): Lucent is ramping up capacity to try to meet demand. But analysts say, it`ll take the company at least until summer to begin closing that gap. 

 Fred Katayama, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: High-flying telecom and tech stocks lifted the Nasdaq to its 13th record of the year, which means the Nasdaq has been at a record one out of every three trading days in 2000. The index climbed 87 points to close at 4784. It`s now up 17.5 percent on the year. It was the busiest day ever for the Nasdaq, with more than 2 billion shares changing hands. 

 But some so-called "old economy" stocks weighed on the Dow industrials. They gained nine points to end at 10,137. 

 Peter Viles, now, on the tale of two markets, and what it might mean for the losers. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The blue chips, once again, inched higher, but again they lost ground to technology stocks, which are still red hot in a rally many believe is being driven by individual investors. 

 SCOTT BLEIER, PRIME CHARTER LTD.: Everybody wants the next 30- point gainer, and you`re not going to get a 30-point gainer in a paper stock. VILES: Since August 10, the end of its last correction, the Nasdaq is up a staggering 96 percent. The Dow in that stretch has lost five percent, and one analyst believes the split market may end up driving some companies private. 

 ART HOGAN, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Almost the entire Dow 30, but, you know, some of the names in the S&P as well, are just not getting the sponsorship they need to get, and you get to a point, like we did in the `80s, where stocks get too cheap and companies take themselves private. We may see a rash of LBOs at some point in time. 

 VILES: There`s no question there are now two kinds of stocks and two rules for valuing them: older companies, like Ford and General Motors, worth about $50 billion each, Delta Airlines, AMR, and K-Mart each worth less than $10 billion. Compare those valuations to these: at $87 billion. JDS Uniphase (URL: http://www.jdsunph.com/) is easily worth more than either automaker. And take your pick of the next four: Juniper Networks (URL: http://www.juniper.net/)    , Ariba (URL: http://www.ariba.com/) , Akamai (URL: http://www.akamai.com/) , or Verisign (URL: http://www.verisign.com/) , because each of them is more valuable than Delta (URL: http://www.delta-air.com/) , AMR (URL: http://www.amrcorp.com/) , and Kmart (URL: http://www.kmart.com/) combined. 

 BLEIER: How is that justified? I don`t know, but the market is justifying it. And investors want this. They want to get in on this, they want a piece of this. Even my mother wants to own Internet stocks. 

 VILES (on camera): This is a powerful trend, and it`s the subject of a growing debate on Wall Street over whether the high-techs can continue to trade in a world of their own, or must they eventually rejoin the rest of the market. 

 Peter Viles, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Coming up, two Baby Bells talk about creating a wireless giant. And we`ll have a special interview with AT&T`s Michael Armstrong on how Ma Bell is adapting to and in some ways leading the new economy. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s "Sector Focus": telecom stocks. The sector was on fire today on positive analyst comments and reports of deal making. In what could be another blockbuster merger, Baby Bells SBC and BellSouth are in talks to combine their wireless units. That news sent stock of SBC up nearly 3 1/2 points. Bell South gained 2 1/4. 

 The full story from Greg Clarkin. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): There could be yet another national wireless phone giant for consumers to choose from. Baby Bells SBC Communications and BellSouth are talking about combining their cell phone units. The combination would create a company with more than 16 million subscribers, second only to the 23 million Bell Atlantic will have after it closes its wireless merger with Vodafone AirTouch (URL: http://www.vodafone-airtouch-plc.com/) . 

 MICHAEL BALHOFF, LEGG MASON: It makes a tremendous amount of sense overall because these companies do need the perception of a near national network, there`s a question of scale, and their technologies appear to be compatible. 

 CLARKIN: It`s national networks wireless companies covet, as consumers use cell phones more they want nationwide plans. And if you`re a company with just regional service you`re going to pay another company for some calls your customers make outside your area. Merging wireless units would save on those roaming charges, and save on marketing costs as well. 

 SBC offers wireless service in more than 20 states, BellSouth in nine, combining the two would create something close to a national network, but not quite. 

 CYNTHIA MOTZ, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: This joint company would have a hole in New York City and New York in general, and also would have holes in the West. So it`s not totally nationwide, but I think there are a lot of players. It`s tough to have a full nationwide footprint. 

 CLARKIN: Shares of SBC and BellSouth have suffered over the past year because separately they lack national coverage. Both companies declined to comment on the merger speculation, and analysts say it`s a rapidly consolidating business with numerous companies talking partnerships or deals. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: And analysts also caution management issues could derail talks, and then there`s also the possibility something less than a full fledged merger could occur, maybe a partnership, but those have a pretty spotty track record of success in the wireless business --Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Wireless is the future, is it not? 

 CLARKIN: Exactly. 

 VARNEY: Willow, we`re wheeling and dealing in wireless over here. What have you got for us? 

 BAY: All right, Stuart, another big telecom deal may be in the works. Europe`s largest phone company, Deutsche Telekom is reportedly in talks to buy Qwest Communications and U.S. West. Qwest is already in  the process of acquiring U.S. West for $39 billion. No comment on the reports from the companies. Qwest surged almost 13 today, U.S. West gained better than 8, and Deutsche Telekom trading in New York gained more than 4. 

 VARNEY: If Deutsche Telekom does make some bold deal, there`s one CEO who`ll be ready for the challenge. Next on MONEYLINE, we`ll hear from AT&T`s chief, Michael Armstrong, an expert deal maker himself, as we kick off a new series on the stars of corporate America: "Headliners," we call it. Stay with us. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: We begin a new series here on MONEYLINE this evening, "Headliners," profiles of America`s top CEOs making bold moves within their industries and companies. Tonight: AT&T`s Michael Armstrong, the chief executive who`s taken one of America`s most venerable companies and reinvented it. Over his 40-year career, Armstrong has worked for just three major companies, but that hardly means he`s an executive afraid to take chances. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 MICHAEL ARMSTRONG, CEO, AT&T: Well, you guys have brought good fortune. 

 VARNEY (voice-over): His father-in-law once predicted he`d end up selling popcorn at the hometown ballpark. Today, Detroit`s own Michael Armstrong walks the halls of AT&T headquarters as the CEO behind one of history`s greatest corporate gambles, and the manager who is not afraid of making waves. 

 (on camera): Confrontation, do you handle it? Do you like it? 

 ARMSTRONG: Yes. 

 VARNEY: Do you use it? 

 ARMSTRONG: You have to have it in a business like this. Nobody is right all the time. 

 VARNEY (voice-over): Armstrong, however, is sure he`s right in a bold attempt to turn Ma Bell into Ma Cable through two and a half years of relentless deal making. His vision: that cable will be the wire of choice for offering high-speed phone, TV, and Internet access. 

 ARMSTRONG: That`s right. And what is the Internet? It`s an enormous productivity vehicle for people and for businesses. 

 VARNEY: It`s a high-stakes bet from a 61-year-old executive who prefers a Harley to a chauffeured Sedan, a hobby inherited from his first boss, the legendary IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) chief Tom Watson Jr. Armstrong arrived at Big Blue armed with a Bachelor of Science in  business and economics from Miami University, and he stayed for more than 30 years. He left to lead Hughes Electronics, taking control of AT&T five years later. 

 Recently, I sat down with Armstrong to find out what makes him tick and what makes running AT&T worth it. 

 ARMSTRONG: Communications is just so central to the way we live, we learn. We have fun. That what`s happening in communications today driven by technology is a whole redefinition of how we relate to each other, whether it`s voice, whether it`s video, or whether it`s data. 

 VARNEY (on camera): But what are you actually going to do for me? How will my life change because of what you`re doing at AT&T? 

 ARMSTRONG: Well, let`s start with when you come home. When you come home tomorrow, you`ll be able to turn on that television set, and it will enable you to check your messages, your e-mail, your voicemail, be able to interact not only with your personal computer, your television and your telephone, all as an integrative communications system. 

 VARNEY: You have taken one of the great names in American business and completely turned it around and put it moving in a separate and fresh direction. You bet the farm on the Internet, a new platform really, haven`t you? 

 ARMSTRONG: Yes, we have. We have bet it on number one, that broadband is the future and by that I mean that increasing capacity to do things with communications. That`s what broadband is, to be able to interact in a live way such as full-motion video and the television medium that we`re enjoying today. 

 Second, that we`re going to be able to open that platform so that others, as I was mentioning, can participate on it. And third, that there`s a digital revolution that`s going over that platform so that these things that we call voice and video and data and the phone and the TV and the PC, they can all come together, Stu, so that  they interact with each other, and before, that`s never been possible. 

 VARNEY: Freemont, California -- people getting busy signals on the phone, as I understand, the teething trouble of new technology as it`s introduced to the marketplace, huge negative? 

 ARMSTRONG: Well, no. It`s a huge expectation. People have an expectation that when we begin that we`re going to begin with perfection, and because in a way that has been AT&T`s reputation for reliability and service. We have what we call the five nines expectation out there that anything we do is 99.999 percent reliable and serviceable, and that`s why we have got such a wonderful brand frankly, because we don`t disappoint people behind that. 

 VARNEY: Is it -- what really turns Michael Armstrong on? Is it the technology, or is it leading a huge company and moving it in that direction? You personally, Michael Armstrong, what is it? 

 ARMSTRONG: Stu, it`s the impact that both of those bring to what makes me get up and make Monday morning the most exciting day of my week. 

 VARNEY: Monday morning is the most exciting day of the week for you? 

 ARMSTRONG: I can hardly wait to start again. 

 VARNEY (voice-over): Armstrong is enthusiastic about AT&T`s future. But what about investors? After outperforming the Dow during his first year on the job, AT&T stock stumbled during 1999, as questions about his vision surfaced. Did he pay too much for the cable properties, and are the high-tech obstacles too expensive to overcome? 

 In December, Armstrong came charging back, reassuring analysts that his bet on cable is a winning one. 

 ARMSTRONG: Internet over cable is right on track with what we said. 

 VARNEY: Analysts we spoke to agreed, applauding Armstrong for  his energy and can-do attitude, one calling him a leader of the new economy. And while he`ll qualify for Social Security in less than four years, Armsrong has no plans to slow down. 

 ARMSTRONG: Retirement sometimes happens to people in the middle of their careers and sometimes, and more importantly, at the end of their careers, and I am far from the end of my career. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: AT&T`s stock has been struggling this year along with the rest of the blue chips, and Armstrong has continued to aggressively defend the company and his strategy. According to the book, "Lessons from the Top" with Tom Neff, that`s all part of Armstrong`s leadership philosophy. 

 In the book, Armstrong sums it up this way: "When the company comes under attack, whether from Washington, competition or industry analysts, you have got to be out there taking the brunt, and leading by example." That is Michael Armstrong -- Willow. 

 BAY: Stuart, and certainly leading the way on the Web somewhat improbably. 

 VARNEY: Yes, actually, he was one of the first people in such a major corporation to jump on the net and run with it. He was the first on that. 

 BAY: That he did. 

 Up next on MONEYLINE: The heat on this IPO could power a volcano, tomorrow`s Palm offering lights a fire under 3Com. We`ll have the details coming up. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: This week`s market newcomers are all very different. But many share one important thing in common: the Internet. Today`s big splash came from a player in the hot business-to-business sector. Onvia.com, a virtual marketplace for small businesses, nearly tripled in price. And MatrixOne soared more than 48. The company makes business software for the Web. 

 Internet fever also gripped the Hong Kong market today. Tom.com, a Web portal backed by a Hong Kong business tycoon, rose more than four-fold. Investors literally clamored for shares of Tom.com outside of Hong Kong banks during last week`s share offer. But the buzz on this side of the Atlantic is about the Palm Pilot IPO. The company is being spun off by 3Com tomorrow, it`s creating a virtual feeding frenzy in 3Com shares, which could lead to a huge opening pop  for Palm. 

 Bruce Francis joins us now with the latest -- Bruce. 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Willow, that buzz is reaching a din level on Wall Street. This could be the most anticipated IPO of the new year. Not only does the company make a product that very few business people can live without, but it`s at the center of the wireless Web craze. 

 Late today, Palm priced at $38 a share. That`s well above the expected range of $30 to $32. Of course, that was just doubled recently. 3Com is selling 23 million shares of Palm to the public, but it will holding on to 90 percent, or more than that actually, of Palm`s equity. It will spin-off the rest of that to 3Com`s shareholers in about six months. That`s why investors have been piling in to this stock. It jumped 6 1/8 today to a new high. 

 And it has been going gangbusters over the past few months. They announced this deal back in September. It is up more than 280 percent since then. 

 Willow, that is a remarkable performance for a stock that had become somewhat of a tech laggard over the past few years with some uneven performance. 

 BAY: And no doubt accounting for the buzz. Bruce Francis reporting, thanks -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Up next on MONEYLINE, Willow. More than $35 million and  you don`t even get a picket fence. A real estate deal that could only happen on Park Avenue. Plus, "Ahead of the Curve," some of what you need to know tonight, before those markets open up again tomorrow. You`re watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Wall Street will have some huge potential deals to chew over tomorrow. Keep an eye on Aetna`s shares after the insurer confirmed that it got a takeover big from WellPoint and ING. 

 Watch out for Radiant Systems (URL:  N/A) , up 26 in after-hours on word of a B2B with Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) . 

 And Palm will make its debut on Wall Street after pricing at $38 a share. 

 Oil ministers from Venezuela, Mexico and Saudi Arabia meet in London discuss crude prices. 

 VARNEY: Finally tonight, tales of the city that show how money talks from Broadway to Park Avenue. Soon, some familiar names maybe changing in the theater business. Broadway`s Roundabout Theater today announced a deal to rename the venerable sel-win (ph) theater, now under renovation, as the American Airlines Theater, that deal is worth about $8.5 million. 

 And then, there is the Winter Garden Theater, home to "Cats." It is reportedly working on a sponsorship deal with General Motors that would put Cadillac in its name. 

 And a deal that has Manhattan real estate mavens buzzing. The one-time corporate raider Saul Steinberg has sold his palatial triplex at 740 Park Avenue for, get ready, more than $35 million. That is according to the "New York Observer." 

 The apartment spans 20,000 square feet over three floors and 34 rooms: spacious to say the least, but worth $35 million is it? The queen broker of New York real estate says, yes, you better believe it. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This apartment traded at roughly $1800 a foot if you break it down. But you have to appreciate that there are many apartments on Park Avenue that have traded even in excess of $2000 a square feet. So it`s a steal of a deal. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY: Oh, clearly, a steal for the buyer at least, Stephen Schwarzman, chief executive of the Blackstone Group. But the seller didn`t do too badly either: Steinberg reportedly bought the triplex in 1971 for $285,000. That`s a return on investment of more than 12, 000 percent -- Willow. 

 BAY: Not a bad return. I believe that is a record for a New York City co-op. 

 VARNEY: That is accurate. 

 BAY: That is MONEYLINE for this Wednesday. I`m Willow Bay from Los Angeles. 

 VARNEY: And I`m Stuart Varney. Thanks for joining us. Good night from New York. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes  or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or 

 interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited  portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of 

 such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw310006t

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))   Date03/01/2000 to 03/31/2000   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectCorporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found64   Timestamp27 March 2018 10:00  
 Page 42 of 42     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

