 
•	  Teamsters Say Dallas-Based Air Cargo Firm Illegally Shutting Down Plant 
•	  MONEYLINE 
•	 Carrollton, Texas-Based Mobile Phones Distributor Issues  Profit Warning
•	  UPDATE 2-Office Depot warns of 2nd-quarter profit shortfall. 
•	  MONEYLINE 
•	  Financial Issues and Microsoft Lead Indexes Lower; Dow Has Biggest Loss in 3 Weeks  
•	 Costco's Sales Slip Sends Investors Racing to Exit ---  Profit Warning  Unnerves Wall Street
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  Merrill downgrades S'pore electronic contractors. 
•	  US retailers hit by Costco warning, inflation fear. 
•	  Novell Reports 2nd-Quarter Net Income Fell 20% As Sales Declined 4.2% 
•	  Ryerson Tull at new low after earnings forecast. 
•	  Shares of Coca-Cola Enterprises hit new lows. 
•	 After  Profit Warning , J.D. Edwards To  Cut  800 Jobs In Restructuring
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  POLL-Nissan, Mazda, Mitsubishi earnings forecasts. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Equant shares crash amid Q1 results gloom. 
•	  BRIEFLY Series: BRIEFLY; Earnings 
•	  Gymboree Posts Loss, Reiterates Warning About Weakness In 2nd Quarter 
•	  ANALYSIS-U.S. firms impotent in face of euro slide. 
•	  Editorial Rdp  
•	 Profit warning  as things get worsewith Coca-Cola
•	  Editorial Roundup 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-Merrill downgrades Coke Enterprises. 
•	  UPDATE 2-NEL issues warning as costs rise. 
•	  UPDATE1-Coke launches $1 bln U.S. diversity program. 
•	  Perle slides after profit continues to elude company: Still feeling Y2K pinch 
•	  ANALYSIS-Japan automakers short-changed by euro's slide. 
•	  WRAPUP 1-European shares fall on pre-Fed nerves. 
•	 RWE 9-Mo Earnings Seen Suffering From Elec Price  Decline
•	  Kmart Net Fell 61% in First Quarter   
•	  Kmart Reports 61% Drop in Net For First Quarter   
•	  UPDATE 4-Gap profits meet lowered expectations. 
•	  PacDun sparks. 
•	  POLL-Japan auto profits seen hit by yen, domestic slump. 
•	  WILL THE CHINESE CYBER-BUBBLE BURST? 
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	 WARNACO SEES EARNING SHORTFALL -  
•	  Business Brief -- SUNGLASS HUT INTERNATIONAL INC.: Earnings Warning Issued Due to April Sales Slump 
•	  WRAPUP-Dow ends down 250.99, bonds slide on rate fear. 
•	  Dow set to bounce a bit, Europe wary pre-Greenspan. 
•	  WRAPUP 2-Euro plunges against yen, bourses edge up. 
•	 AT&T's stock takes a dive 
•	 AT&T's stock falls 14 percent on long-distance hangups
•	 Microsoft, AT&T setbacks sink markets 
•	 AT&T shares slump on warning.
•	  Inflation fears rattle U.S. stocks ahead of Greenspan. 
•	 Novell plunges 37 percent after  profit warning .
•	  U.S. stocks open lower - Novell, retailers weigh. 
•	 RESEARCH ALERT - Novell target, estimates  cut .
•	  Profit Woes Hit AT&T Shares, Fuel Wider Fears 
•	  AT&T's Poor Showing Puts CEO on the Hot Seat 
•	 INVESTORS HAVING HANG-UPS ABOUT AT&T  PROFIT WARNING  DEPRESSES STOCK
•	  AT&T stock tumbles 15% 
•	 AT&T STOCK TUMBLES 14%  PROFIT WARNING  CITES PRICE WARS
•	 GLOOMY FORECAST PUMMELS AT&T STOCK 
•	 Investors batter AT&T TECHNOLOGY: Its stock suffers a worst-ever 15% drop amid concerns about - performance. 
•	  'New' AT&T takes a hit - Company's poor showing puts CEO on the hot seat<br> - Wall Street losing its patience with telecom giant's slow...
•	 AT&T stock suffers serious loss - Market reacts to  cut  of 6,200 jobs and lower profits
•	 GLUM FORECAST HURTS AT&T'S STOCK NEW QUESTIONS RAISED ON AMBITIOUS REVAMP 
•	  MONEYLINE 
•	 AT&T stock plunges under  profit warning
•	 AT&T's  Profit Warning  Reverses Gains Seen in Tech, Telecom Issues
•	  Business Highlights 
•	 AT&T  PROFIT WARNING  DRAGS MARKET LOWER -- INVESTORS DECIDE TO TAKE PROFITS AFTER THREE-DAY TECH RALLY
•	 Profit warning  prompts slide in AT&T stock; Long-distance price wars believed to play a role
•	  Danish shares hit 5-week highs, outlook unsure. 
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  MONEYLINE 
•	  AT&T Suffers As Investors Still Focus On Long-Distance 
•	 AT&T Stock Down Over  Profit Warning
•	 AT&T falls on  profit warning , dragging market lower
•	 AT&T falls on  profit warning , dragging market lower
•	  AT&T posts results in line with most expectations, but cuts forecasts 
•	  Business Highlights 
•	  AT&T posts results in line with most expectations, but cuts forecasts 
•	  AT&T stock tumbles as it cuts forecasts for profits 
•	  Accounting implications of SOP 98-2 for auditors 
•	  BAAN IN DUTCH.(Statistical Data Included) 

 Teamsters Say Dallas-Based Air Cargo Firm Illegally Shutting Down Plant 

 Linda Lipp 
973 words
31 May 2000
Wayne, Indiana
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Did Kitty Hawk Inc. violate federal law when it decided to shut down its money-guzzling, profit-draining International Division with little or no warning to its 600 employees? 

 Local 747 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which represents the division's 300 cockpit crew members, believes it did. 

 Kitty Hawk International flights ceased April 30, two days after the company announced the shutdown and the day before the International Division and Kitty Hawk Inc.'s other subsidiaries filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in Dallas/Fort Worth, site of the corporation's headquarters. 

 Lawyers for the Teamsters filed a brief in bankruptcy court May 10 alleging Kitty Hawk violated the Worker Adjustment, Retraining and Notification Act, which was passed by Congress in 1988 to give workers a safety net when the company employing them went out of business or was forced into mass layoffs. 

 The WARN Act requires companies with 100 or more employees to provide workers with a 60-day notice of a plant or site closing or large- scale layoff. If a company fails to do so, it can be penalized by having to pay each of the full-time terminated workers a day's pay for each day of notice it failed to provide. 

 But, like any law, it is subject to interpretation. Whether it will offer any assistance to employees of Kitty Hawk's shuttered international operation is a matter to be decided by the courts. 

 The 600 workers in the International Division lost their jobs without receiving WARN Act compensation, severance pay, their final paychecks or reimbursement for expenses. 

 "Our contention . . . is that Kitty Hawk International didn't provide any notice and it owes workers for a full 60 days," said Local 747 lawyer William Wilder, of Washington D.C. 

 There are exceptions to the WARN Act that the company may argue apply here, said Mark Crouch, professor of labor studies at Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne. If the company's financial problems could not reasonably have been foreseen, or if the company was faltering and the burden of paying the workers of a closed plant, work site or unit would have left it unable to continue, it could be exempted from the requirement. 

 Kitty Hawk said it had to shutter the International Division because its high costs were a drain on the corporation's resources. Headquartered in Ypsilanti, Mich., the division operated 19 heavyweight cargo aircraft. 

 Even if the company claims financial hardship, however, it is still required to provide notice and argue that the financial hardship made a longer warning impossible, Wilder said. KHI did not do that. 

 It also would be difficult for Kitty Hawk to claim that its financial problems were a recent development, Wilder said. 

 "The troubles that they were facing had been brewing for a number of months," he said. 

 Kitty Hawk's stock collapsed April 12 after it warned it was nearly out of cash, could land in bankruptcy and might sell off assets. But Kitty Hawk has been struggling since its 1997 acquisition of Kalitta Cos. It had tried to cut costs by closing a charter passenger airline and cutting related jobs. More recent problems included higher-than- expected maintenance costs, lower-than-expected freight revenues, the resignation of chief financial officer Paul Tate and the growing certainty Kitty Hawk would be unable to make a $17 million interest payment due May 1. 

 Kitty Hawk International's non-union employees also are consulting lawyers about their WARN Act rights, but have not as yet filed any legal proceedings. 

 While the WARN Act applies to both union and non-union workers, the Teamsters contract contained additional severance pay language and protections that the union argues should apply to its members. 

 Bankruptcy was used by several major corporations in the late 1970s and early 1980s to duck their union contracts, a practice the U.S. Supreme Court upheld. 

 Congress responded in 1984 by passing a law that forbade companies from voiding or altering labor contracts without the approval of the court and a showing that the changes are "essential to the continuation of the debtor's business or in order to avoid irreparable damage. . ." 

 Since KHI's hub was located in Michigan, the Teamsters also are citing a state law providing that back wages and expenses owed to workers take a priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors in the bankruptcy proceeding. 

 Many of the cockpit crew members used the company's American Express card for expenses, and now the credit card company is holding the individual workers liable for the charges, said Teamsters International Representative Don Treichler. 

 "Some of them are owed thousands of dollars," Treichler said. 

 "I would say that this company is not operating with clean hands." 

 Kitty Hawk's lawyers received the bankruptcy court's approval to pay the wages and expenses of workers in its continuing divisions, but the court turned down the company's request to pay the wages and expenses owed to the International Division employees. 

 On Thursday, the court approved a final order allowing Kitty Hawk to continue to use its cash collateral for ongoing operations, but no relief was offered for the international employees. 

 The National Labor Relations Board was in the midst of a mail-in ballot that would decide whether the Teamsters would represent about 280 cockpit crew members of the air cargo division, which has a hub in Fort Wayne. The ballots were sent out April 21 and were due back to be counted Friday. 

 The results of that ballot were not immediately available, but Treichler said there were a number of crew members within the cargo division who had opposed the Teamsters and he expected the union's bid for representation would fail. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw5v00ymp


 Business 
 MONEYLINE 

 Willow Bay, Steve Young, Kitty Pilgrim, Greg Clarkin, Lisa Leiter, Allan Dodds Frank, Wolf Blitzer, Steve Young, Peter Viles, Casey Wian 
8,212 words
31 May 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE: Tonight on MONEYLINE: Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) takes its last crack at the government`s plan to break it up, but will it influence Judge Jackson? We profile the man in charge of punishing the software king. 

 April showers brought few May flowers to Wall Street. The markets close out the month in the red. Will a summer rally reverse this dreary 2000? 

 Calvin Klein struts its stuff right into court with bitter accusations that Warnaco is destroying its brands. Find out why Calvin is crying foul. 

 And forget about oil: This liquid asset could prove more profitable to T. Boone Pickens. How the Texas tycoon plans to make millions: a MONEYLINE special report. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is MONEYLINE. Reporting tonight from New York, Willow Bay. 

 BAY: Good evening, everyone. Stuart is off tonight. 

 The fate of Microsoft: It`s now in the judge`s hands. Late today, the company filed its final reply to the government`s breakup proposal. Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson could rule as early as tomorrow on the software giant`s penalty. 

 The trial, which began less than two years ago, is now rapidly coming to a conclusion. 

 Steve Young has been reading the legal brief and he joins us live from U.S. District Court in Washington with more. 

 Steve, are there any changes in Microsoft`s position? 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Not changes. It`s just stiffed its back quite a bit, Willow. It`s had a week since the proceeding was brought to an abrupt halt here by Judge Jackson. 

 Microsoft writes in this filing that the government`s two-part breakup proposal is -- quote -- "defective, vague and ambiguous." 

 The company says that due process has been truncated, and today it introduces a new passel of potential witnesses, including one very big surprise, Jeffrey Katzenberg of the movie studio Dreamworks. Also on that list, the CEO of Compaq computer, Michael Capellas, as well as the CEO of J.D. Edwards (URL: http://www.jdedwards.com/) , the brokerage, and some other companies, including GEICO and Nordstrom (URL: http://www.nordstrom.com/) . 

 The document indicates that if he would get a chance to testify, Katzenberg would say that Microsoft`s products work well together and the studio will have to go to extra costs to make movies if Microsoft is broken up. 

 The CEO of Compaq, Michael Capellas, says customers just want products that work just out of the box. 

 I can tell you, having had about 30 minutes to look at this document, it`s clearly a down-to-the-wire document. Every page is full of lines struck out, words inserted. Clearly, they were working right down to the wire. And the ball literally is now in his court or courtroom, Judge Jackson`s -- Willow. 

 BAY: Steve Young, thank you. We`ll, of course, have much more on Microsoft`s latest filing, including an in-depth look at the man who`s already labeled Microsoft a predatory monopolist. Meet Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, later on MONEYLINE. 

 On Wall Street today, the performance anything but spectacular. After yesterday`s record rally, which sent the Nasdaq up nearly 8 percent, investors took a break from buying. Traders now apparently afraid to make any big bets ahead of Friday`s employment report. 

 Kitty Pilgrim has more. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 KITTY PILGRIM, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A lackluster follow-up to a historic rally in the Nasdaq and a powerhouse surge in the Dow. In sharp contrast to yesterday, the blue chips traded in a narrow range all day, ending with a loss of four points. 

 The Nasdaq did manage to pop up positive on the session once or twice, but succumbed in late trading to minor pressure, closing down 58 points to 3,400. 

 Some of the big-cap tech stocks -- including Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) , Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com) , IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) , Cisco (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) , and Sun (URL: http://www.sun.com/) -- didn`t hold up in trading. And neither did the big Internet stocks. Among the losers, eBay (URL: http://www.ebay.com/) , Yahoo! (URL: http://www.yahoo.com/) and Amazon Inc.; Ticker: AMZN; URL: http://www.amazon.com/>. 

 But at least one analyst sees reason for the tech bulls to return. 

 KEITH DUNNE, ROBERTSON STEPHENS: We`ve just got some terrific trends going on in the industry. Not only do you have the opportunity to benefit in all that`s happening with the proliferation of electronics, but perhaps even more important are the continuing outsourcing trends. 

 PILGRIM: Motorola (URL: http://www.mot.com/) a case in point, signing a $30 billion contract  with component maker Flextronics (URL: http://www.flextronics.com/) . And Lucent Technologies, the world`s biggest maker of telephone equipment, said it was acquiring optical hardware maker Chromatis in a $4 1/2 billion deal. Many analysts say these kinds of deals illustrate how tech companies will grow despite rising interest rates, solving expansion problems through acquisition or outsourcing. 

 ROBIN GRIFFITHS, HSBC SECURITIES: Every time you need cash, if your shareholders say, "We`ll buy some more stock," you can use this confetti-like substance of your own (UNINTELLIGIBLE). If that fails, you need to go to the bank. And undoubtedly, some of the stocks in the new economy, no bank will lend them money. They have to go to their shareholders. 

 Well, up until March, their shareholders were only too willing to bury them in money. But as now they`re under water a little bit, they`ll be much  less keen. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 PILGRIM: Now, this suggests that tech stocks may face more pressure until the interest rate picture becomes more clear, leading up to the next Fed meeting in late June. And investors will look for clues on Fed decision-making in economic reports due out over the next two days -- Willow. 

 BAY: Kitty Pilgrim, thank you. In the month of May -- the month of May will certainly go down in the history books, but not for reasons most investors enjoy celebrating. In fact, just this month alone, the Nasdaq has lost 12 percent of its value, and the Dow, off nearly 2 percent. 

 Greg Clarkin joins us now with a closer look from the New York Stock Exchange -- Greg. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: And Willow, a fitting close to the month of May today. We saw light volume and really lackluster trading. 

 Now, what traders are saying that struck them about today`s activity at least was the lack of activity from the large -- the large investors, the institutional investors. One trader cited the example, saying that basically he had a very large block order and it took him hours to match that order up and get the business done, mainly because institutions at this point really are just kind of waiting, or at least the feeling is that they`re waiting to see Friday`s employment figures for the month of May. 

 So in the short term, there`s going to be choppiness, and then, of course, everything leads to Friday`s employment report. And again, nobody seems to want to go out on a limb and take a large bet or make a large ahead of those figures. 

 Now, there were some Dow winners with the month -- month of May. Let`s take a look at some of the best-performing blue chips. There were led by two beaten-down stocks. Philip Morris, up about 19 percent or so on the month. Coca-Cola shares gaining 13 percent, but we should point out that both of those stocks are still well below where they were last year at this point. 

 And then Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) still has really never recovered from its profit warning in the first quarter, but still posted an 11 percent gain for the month. 

 Now on the downside, shares of AT&T (URL: http://www.att.com/) a sharp loser for this month, down 26 percent; General Motors (URL: http://www.gm.com/) down 25 percent; The Home Depot (URL: http://www.homedepot.com/) down 13 percent. And May was also notable for the record amount of IPOs that were either pulled or canceled in the month of May: 33 companies that planned to come to market did not come to market. And in May -- and in April rather we saw 28. So two very big months of IPOs canceled. 

 Again, May also notable for the incredibly light volume: Nine of the 10 lightest trading days of the year occurred in the month of May. 

 Willow, back to you. 

 BAY: Greg Clarkin, at the New York Stock Exchange, thanks. 

 There are also signs of a slowdown on the economic front: a report today that showed new home sales tumbled in April. That could mean the Federal Reserve`s tightening campaign is indeed beginning to slow  the economy. 

 But as Lisa Leiter reports from Chicago, that still may not be enough to keep the central bank happy. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 LISA LEITER, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This Chicago home has been on the market for 80 days, an eternity compared to the average selling times in the city just a few months ago. 

 JENNIFER AMES, COLDWELL BANKER: Properties were selling within a day or two of going on the market, often for over full price. Now you are seeing people who are starting at a high price, they`re sitting for a month, they`re making reductions, and finding out the market`s not as strong as it had been. 

 LEITER: It`s a trend evident in the government`s latest report on sales of new homes. They slumped 5.8 percent last month to the lowest level since November. The Midwest fared the worst, with sales plunging 15 1/2 percent. In the West, they dropped more than 11 percent. And in the South, sales fell just a bit. The only rise came in the Northeast, where sales jumped more than 8 percent. 

 Economists say the report could be the latest sign that the Fed`s year-long credit-tightening campaign is starting to filter into the red-hot housing market. The average 30-year fixed rate mortgage is at a five-year high. And an adjustable-rate loan is running at a nine- year high. 

 Still, the drop in home sales comes from near-record levels in March. 

 CARL TANNENBAUM, LASALLE BANK: I think for the Federal Reserve to feel comfortable, we`re going to have to see even greater declines in some of these statistics. 

 LEITER: Especially in light of May`s unexpectedly strong reading on consumer confidence. Policy-makers and Wall Street will surely keep an eagle eye on two crucial reports: one due out tomorrow on manufacturing; the other Friday, on employment. 

 Lisa Leiter, CNN Financial News, Chicago. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Coming up next on MONEYLINE, Calvin Klein goes to court. We`ll tell you why two top fashion moguls are at each other`s throats. It`s Klein versus Linda Wachner, and it is already getting ugly. 

 Ailing health insurer Aetna may have found an answer to its problems. It is in talks to sell one of its units. We`ll have details. 

 And later, a close-up of Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, as Microsoft has its final word. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: A bitter dispute on fashion avenue. Calvin Klein is looking to rip the seams out of a licensing deal with Warnaco Group, Klein accusing Warnaco and its well-known CEO, Linda Wachner, of destroying his brands by selling unauthorized goods to discounters. Shares of Warnaco stock losing 18 percent today. 

 Allan Dodds Frank has the details on what has become an increasingly difficult relationship between Klein and Wachner. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ALLAN DODDS FRANK, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): For designer Calvin Klein, his licensing agreement with apparel manufacturer Warnaco (URL: http://www.warnaco.com/) is no longer a perfect fit. Klein sued Warnaco and its chief executive, Linda Wachner, in federal court Tuesday, seeking to dissolve their licensing agreement, which has more than 30 years to run. 

 The suit contends that Warnaco sales of jeans and underwear to discount stores, such as Costco (URL: http://www.costco.com/) , Sam`s Club, BJ`s (URL: http://www.bjswholesale.com/) , and even J.C. Penney (URL: http://www.jcpenney.net/) , are improperly Calvin Klein`s value as a designer brand. 

 TOM JULIAN, FALLON: When you`re looking a brand and a designer image, you have to keep that clean and consistent, and also very global. When you start to take that brand and beat it down and bastardize it in the marketplace, it loses its cache. 

 FRANK: Under the licensing agreement, Klein says his products were not to be sold to mass marketers nor was Warnaco to substitute its own designs for Klein`s. The suit contends that full-price customers, including Neiman Marcus (URL: http://www.neimanmarcus.com) , Dillard`s (URL: http://www.dillards.com/) and Nordstrom`s, complained and canceled orders. 

 Nearly 40 percent of Warnaco`s revenue comes from selling close to a billion-dollars worth of Calvin Klein jeans, underwear and other  CK products throughout the Americas. 

 HARVEY ROBINSON, THE CHAPMAN COMPANY: I really believe that Warnaco and Calvin Klein will sit down at the table, and try and work this situation out. Warnaco has done a fairly decent job with the Calvin Klein products, and you know, you wouldn`t want to immediately shift gears. 

 FRANK: But the wording in Klein`s complaint is anything but friendly. The suit accuses Warnaco and Wachner of being a cancer on Klein`s trademarks. 

 The suit charges that -- quote -- "Wachner`s own vulgar and unprofessional management style, and her abusive treatment of employees and other professionals has also harmed CK`s ongoing business relations." 

 Neither Warnaco nor Wachner had any comment. 

 (on camera): Until recently, Calvin Klein`s closely held company was shopping for a buyer, and if this suit succeeds in ending the deal with Warnaco, some analysts believe the company could be a more attractive takeover target for another manufacturer. 

 Allan Dodds Frank, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Warnaco`s stock down more than a dollar today, trading below $7 a share. Warnaco has lost 77 percent since setting a 52-week high of $30 a share. 

 A new chief at Kmart (URL: http://www.kmart.com/) , Charles Conaway, replacing Floyd Hall as chairman and chief executive: 39-year-old Conaway leaves drugstore operator CVS  (URL: http://www.cvs.com/) . He has got a big job ahead of him. Kmart suffers from messy stores, poor customer service, an ailing stock price, and he faces 

 the additional challenge of managing Martha Stewart (URL: http://www.marthastewart.com/) and her billion-dollar line. 

 Despite a gain today, Kmart has been a poor performer on the street. It hit a four-year low earlier this month and is down 45 percent over the past year. 

 The hiring of Conaway ends a search that started this spring, but two of its competitors are still on the CEO lookout. Still hiring: Sears, to fill Arthur Martinez`s seat, and JCPenney, to fill James Oesterreicher`s chair. 

 The nation`s No. 1 retailer tops tonight MONEYLINE`s "Movers." Wal-Mart jumped more than 4 1/2, as Lehman Brothers (URL: http://www.lehman.com/) issued positive comments ahead of its shareholders` meeting tomorrow. Anika Therapeutics (URL: http://www.anikatherapeutics.com/) dropped 4 3/4, or more than 65 percent. The biotech company said the Securities and Exchange Commission is looking into how it calculates its revenues. Anika also reported disappointing results from trials of its osteoarthritis treatment. 

 And Aetna (URL: http://www.aetna.com/) gained just over $4 today. The health insurer confirmed it is in talks  to sell its financial services and international business units to the Dutch financial services company ING Group (URL: http://www.inggroup.com/) . This could provide a much- needed boost to shares of Aetna. They`re down nearly 27 percent in  the last 52 weeks. 

 Despite the Nasdaq`s losses this year, some tech stocks have made solid gains. Just ask fund manager Kevin Landis. Next on MONEYLINE, I`ll talk with him about his tech funds` performance and his overall outlook for the sector. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: In tonight`s "Tech Watch," a close look at the beleaguered tech sector. The Nasdaq composite has not managed to recover its losses in May, despite yesterday`s record percentage gain. 

 But our next guest`s tech funds have been outperforming the Nasdaq`s so far this year. Joining me from Mountain View, California, is Kevin Landis, fund manager at Firsthand Funds. 

 Kevin, nice to see you. 

 KEVIN LANDIS, FIRSTHAND FUNDS: Thanks, it`s good to be back. 

 BAY: I know that you believe that the market is having a healthy debate about valuations. Yesterday, investors seemed eager to buy. What about today? What are they telling you today? 

 LANDIS: Well, I think that a technician would tell you there are certain prices, whether it`s in a given month or a given day, that bring out buyers and there are certain prices that bring out sellers. 

 Clearly, there were some people who wanted to sell and they were looking for a nice bounce to get out. So that`s normal. That`s what makes markets. 

 BAY: How are you making money in this market? And you are. Your Tech Value Fund is up 11 percent, Tech Leaders are up 8 1/2, and even your Tech Innovators is down 3 1/2. 

 LANDIS: Well, we`re doing what we always do, which is to take a look at how we think the world is going to be different in a few years. Figure out whose making those changes happen and what we think those companies are worth, and acting on them when we get a good price. 

 BAY: Some of the names that you like: a hosting company,  Globix (URL: http//www.globix.com/) ; GlobeSpan (URL: http://www.globespan.net/) , it makes chips sets for DSL lines; and Asacom (ph), a fiber company. Those three are substantially off their highs. In recommending them, are  you suggesting that they`re going to get back up to their highs again, or that they good long-term value? 

 LANDIS: Well, we take a look at this like any other day. Today is no different when the market is hot. What stocks are likely to perform well for you from today going forward? So forget about the 52-week high, what`s a compelling value? In the case of each one of those companies, they`re in the right place at the right time. They`re well-positioned the midst of a very powerful technology trend, and we like the  prices we can get today. 

 BAY: If an investor is more cautious, but still wants to be in the tech sector, what do you recommend? 

 LANDIS: Well, for most of our investors, the ones who are a little more cautious and take comfort only in very strong stocks, they gravitate toward our Technology Leaders Fund, because those are companies that have established that they dominate a certain sector of high tech, but they tend to already have a pretty big market cap. So for example, you`re not going to get a 10-bagger out of Lucent (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) , but  you can get a pretty good price on it, and it`s a pretty well established franchise. 

 BAY: And what about something like a Cisco at 56? 

 LANDIS: Cisco is a big holding in our Technology Leaders Fund, but we won`t hold it in something like our Innovators Fund, where we want some more undiscovered names. 

 BAY: Kevin Landis, thanks for joining us tonight. 

 LANDIS: All right, thank you very much. Coming up, some of the day`s top stories outside the world of business, and a main-line cable operator goes hardcore -- why AT&T signed a deal for X-rated programming. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: A battle against hundreds of wildfires tonight in Florida and the Southwest. 

 Wolf Blitzer tonight from Atlanta has more on that now in our "MONEYLINE News Digest" -- Wolf. 

 WOLF BLITZER, CNNfn ANCHOR: Thanks, Willow. 

 Those fires have devoured tens of thousands of acres and forced hundreds to evacuate. Near the new Mexico town of Las Vegas, firefighters are struggling to turn a 22,000-acre wildfire away from the town`s water supply. A crew of 900 is battling another blaze in Arizona. And Florida is trying to snuff out over 200 fires, thriving after months of dry weather. Governor Jeb Bush today toured some of the damaged areas. He said conditions are worse than they were two years ago, when wildfires devastated the state. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 GOV. JEB BUSH (R), FLORIDA: While we have better resources, and I think we`re better equipped, and we have more people and better training, we have a serious, serious problem on our hands here. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 WOODRUFF: The Florida governor`s brother, White House hopeful George W. Bush, was in New Mexico and Arizona today, at the start of a four-day campaign tour. He`s attending two fund-raising events in Phoenix. 

 And a joint appearance by Bush`s opponent, Al Gore, and his wife, Tipper, promoting one of her favorite causes. The Gores called on insurers  to cover mental health costs for children, as they do other illnesses. 

 And in New York`s high-profile Senate race, Republican Rick Lazio launched his official candidacy with a bus tour. He`s asking voters to compare his record to Hillary Clinton`s. Meantime, the first lady appeared at a rally in New York City, telling supporters that she`s focusing on, in her words, "issues, not insults." 

 I`ll have those stories and much more ahead in "THE WORLD TODAY." That`s at 8:00 p.m. Eastern, 5:00 on the West Coast -- Willow. 

 BAY: Wolf Blitzer, thank you. 

 A disclosure at AT&T today may have left some Ma Bell executives red in the face. The company, which is one of the country`s biggest cable operators, agreed to offer a hardcore porn channel, the Hot Network, to some subscribers. AT&T would not disclose terms of the deal, but said that its digital subscribers would be able to see adult films on a pay-per-view  basis. A spokesperson said the company decided to carry the Hot Network to keep up with its competitors. But Wall Street analysts told MONEYLINE that any added income would be marginal and would not likely  bolster AT&T`s struggling stock, which closed today at 34 11/16, down nearly half a point. 

 Coming up, we`ll get the latest word on Microsoft`s final pitch to remain in one piece. This, as the world waits for a federal judge to decide whether it is splitsville for Microsoft. And an oil tycoon sees a new opportunity in the hills of Texas, but it`s not black gold he`s wants to put through the pipeline; it`s H2O. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: In tonight`s headlines: the fate of Microsoft now rests in the hands of a federal judge, after the company made a last-ditch effort to stay in tact. And a turbulent day in stocks, as investors turn gun-shy after the Nasdaq`s best day ever. Plus, a renowned corporate raider of the 1980s, T. Boone Pickens, looks to make a new fortune, betting on the most basic of commodities: water. 

 But first, more on tonight`s top story: Microsoft`s last word before a federal judge decides whether to break up the software monopoly. A final ruling on how to punish Microsoft could come as early as tomorrow. For the endgame in the landmark antitrust case, we`re joined from Washington by Steve Young -- Steve. 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Willow, Microsoft had another week to reflect. And if anything, it likes the government`s proposal even less. In the brief it filed today, it called the general government proposal "defective, vague, ambiguous," that to break up the company into two different units. In a surprise, Microsoft it listed even more witnesses it would call if it had the opportunity to do so, including a movie mogul, Jeffrey Katzenberg, one of the principals of Dreamworks Studios, also Michael Capellas, the CEO of Compaq Computer, and the  CEO of J.D. Edwards, the management consulting firm. 

 The document filed late today is full of crossouts on every page. It obviously was worked up until last minute, words inserted and so forth. 

 In a bizarre final twist, it was transmitted by Microsoft over the Internet and received almost an hour later than everyone expected. Seemed to be something wrong with the Internet in this trial about technology. 

 Now it`s up to the judge. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 YOUNG (voice-over): The man who branded Microsoft a predatory monopolist is the same judge who called the acquittal of former Washington Mayor Marion Barry on drug charges a jury screw up. In "Washingtonian" Magazine," he was ranked by dozens of attorneys as the worst in the U.S. District court, described by the magazine as "mean and tyrannical." But he should have been right up Microsoft`s alley: appointed by President Reagan, one-time Republican Party official, conservative. 

 ERNEST GELHORN, GEORGE MASON UNIV.: Those factors might all have suggested that he would have been predisposed toward Microsoft. Indeed, I think he was. I think Microsoft, by its actions in the trial, and the evidence that was presented, persuaded the judge that these were malefactors. 

 YOUNG: Thomas Penfield Jackson is a Navy veteran, and from behind the bench, he ran a tight ship. 

 WILLIAM KOVACIC, GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIV.: I think in most respects, Judge Jackson has done a masterful job of structuring and managing the litigation. 

 YOUNG: Particularly considering how judges have tripped over themselves in past antitrust cases. The IBM case dragged on for a decade and was dropped. In contrast, Judge Jackson has a conclusion in this case less than two years after the trial began. 

 KOVACIC: The perspective of most antitrust observers before the Microsoft case began is that the big monopolization case was a swamp into which the plaintiff`s theories went and never emerged again. It was a place where the government`s theories went to die. 

 YOUNG: The standoff between the judge and the icon was the luck of the draw. Federal district judges are assigned both civil and criminal cases on a random basis. 

 Five years ago, "The Legal Times" newspaper called Jackson, a Harvard law grad, one of the slowest decision makers in Washington. But at 63, Jackson now moves at Internet speed. Antitrust experts say Jackson has revived the possibility that judges can actually handle huge antitrust cases in a reasonably short amount of time. The experts say he gets an A on structuring and managing the litigation, balancing the need for speed, depth and, analysis, but: 

 GELHORN: Then we get the issue of remedy, and the apparent haste to judgment by the court, and that I think is very vulnerable, and I think somewhat mistaken and questionable. 

 YOUNG: In that remedy, or penalty phase, Judge Jackson decided not to hear more testimony from Microsoft witnesses. 

 KOVACIC: I think when we compare that approach to what has constituted best practices from past monopolization cases, we`ll see that he has taken a dangerous shortcut. 

 YOUNG: Whichever court hears the appeal could bounce the remedy back to the judge, or conclude he shortcutted procedure and cast aside the boldest remedy of all, a breakup. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 YOUNG: The Department of Justice may be betting on the odds. Judge Jackson`s decisions have been reversed no more than other federal judges, according to "The Legal Times." Still, that`s 18 percent of his cases -- Willow. 

 BAY: Steve, the judge may have whipped through the penalty phase of this process relatively quickly, but the appeals is not likely to be a quick one, is it? 

 YOUNG: The quickest that anyone foresees is maybe a year, year and a half, could drag on to two, two and a half years. 

 BAY: Steve Young in Washington, thank you. 

 Microsoft`s stock has paid a high price for the company`s legal trouble. Peter Viles has more on the decline of a Wall Street darling and whether the future is any brighter. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): For months, investors ignored him, but now Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson has their full attention: his rulings, combined with weak PC demand, have cut Microsoft stock nearly in half, and some analysts believe a court- ordered breakup 

 would drive the stock even lower. 

 RICK SHERLUND, GOLDMAN SACHS: If at the end of the appeals process, if the company is broken up, I think the stock goes lower, I think it would be materially lower. I think that`s a very big risk to the stock. 

 VILES: When the antitrust trial began 19 months ago, Microsoft traded at a split-adjusted $51 a share. A year into the case, the stock had gained 77 percent, trading in the low 90s at the time Jackson issued his first ruling, that Microsoft abused its monopoly power. Even after that, the stock kept rising, peaking in late December at just above 119. Only this spring, when investors faced up to the reality of a potential breakup did the stock collapse, losing more than $15 on April 3, after settlement talks broke down. And another $12 on April 24, when several analysts downgraded the stock. 

 SHERLUND: I think this has been a snowballing case all the way through. It started out as a contract interpretation case -- could you bundle a browser or couldn`t you? And it snowballed into a case where, you know, within two years, we`ve arrived at the conclusion that you should break the company apart. 

 VILES: At today`s close, Microsoft shares are down 47 percent from their peak. Microsoft alone is responsible for 297 points of the Dow`s 974-point loss this year. On paper, its shareholders have lost a staggering $298 billion. The biggest loser has been Gates himself, whose stake has fallen $44 billion in value. 

 Like many Wall Street strategists, Mark Minervini considers Microsoft untouchable right now. 

 MARK MINERVINI, QUANTECH RESEARCH GROUP: When you`re dealing with the U.S. government and you`re in litigation, I think you have to really expect the unexpected. And what the long-term implications of this are, I don`t think anybody knows. 

 VILES (on camera): Microsoft`s stock is now at the mercy of the legal calendar. Analysts say the appeals process could last a year or longer, which is an eternity in the stock market. 

 Peter Viles, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Microsoft stock posted another losing performance today, down more than 3/4, on what turned out to be a dreary day across Wall Street. One day after the Nasdaq posted its greatest percentage rise ever, investors turned cautious, unwilling to commit to any major moves. The Dow swirled higher and lower, but ended the day practically where it began, off 5 points at 10,522. As for the Nasdaq, the index was in the black for much of the day, only to slip in the late afternoon and close 58 points lower. 

 On the economic front, new home sales slumped 5.8 percent, a sign that higher mortgage rates may be cooling off the housing market. Prospects for a slower economy boosted the bond market. The 10-year note gained 22/32, yielding 6.28 percent, and the 30-year long bond up  1 10/32 for a 6 percent yield. 

 Coming up next on MONEYLINE, more on Microsoft, as the company files its response to the government. Joining me with his insights on the case, antitrust lawyer and former FTC trust buster Kevin Arquit. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: In tonight`s "MONEYLINE" Focus, the endgame in the U.S. versus Microsoft, as the software giant files its response to the government. So what comes next? U.S. District Court Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson`s final decision on whether to break up the company could come as early as tomorrow, and perhaps without warning. The breakup order is expected to be a brief paper statement, without anyone gathering in a courtroom. And the judge is widely expected to follow the government`s recommendation of breaking Microsoft in two. 

 Joining me now with more insight into this landmark case and the future for Microsoft is Kevin Arquit, a partner at Clifford, Chance, Rogers & Wells. He is also the former director of the Bureau of Competition for the FTC. 

 Kevin, welcome. 

 KEVIN ARQUIT, CLIFFORD, CHANCE, ROGERS & WELLS: Thank you. 

 BAY: You`ve had a chance briefly to take a look at this filing. Anything strike you about it? 

 ARQUIT: Well, what Microsoft has done is to go through the government`s proposed order and really on a point-by-point basis make comments. Sometimes it`s to try to retry their case again, but other times it`s to point out things that they say would need to be done in order for them to legally comply with the laws. 

 BAY: And those cross-outs that Steve Young referred to, that`s literally crossing out the government`s arguments and inserting new ones of their own? 

 ARQUIT: Yes, it looks a little bit like the compare write one does with papers, that it takes the government`s order, crosses out things that they don`t like and then adds provisions that while they don`t like them, they say are better than the government`s. 

 BAY: And that`s typical? 

 ARQUIT: Yes, and this kind of thing -- that`s how you`d mark-up an order. It`s what you would do internally and presumably what a judge`s clerk would do when a judge said do something to make this change. 

 BAY: Anything that you have seen so far that would be something that the judge would be likely to consider, anything he hasn`t seen before or considered before? 

 ARQUIT: Well, to the extent that Microsoft says that the form of spin off has to be done in a certain way so that they can comply with securities laws or tax laws, those are things that the judge -- I assume the judge will take all of this into account and read it quite carefully. 

 But there`s something -- there`s a provision that the judge -- that`s in the government`s order that already exists to take into account this kind of thing. That says that Microsoft has four months to come up with a plan of reorganization. And all these kinds of changes are things that could be done in that context. 

 BAY: Now, we keep hearing that the decision could come very quickly. Is that likely that we`ll get a decision Thursday, Friday, early next week? 

 ARQUIT: Well, the judge obviously has had plenty of time to think about this and made clear that he`s pretty much ready to make up his mind. But I think that he will take the time to look at what Microsoft has put down here and to take into account the things that they`ve said. So I`m not sure that it will come out this week. 

 BAY: The judge is known for being an independent thinker. Is he likely to just sign off on the government`s proposal? 

 ARQUIT: Well, if he did I think it would be after careful consideration. This judge has been unpredictable in many ways, I think, both in terms of what -- how the government looks at it and Microsoft. So I wouldn`t look for him necessarily to sign off on the government`s order. BAY: I know that you are a supporter of the government`s position here, but do you have any concern that the judge has acted too quickly in this penalty phase of the case, that there are very profound implications to consider here that he hasn`t given proper time to? 

 ARQUIT: Well, there are certainly profound implications, but this judge sat for months and listened to evidence. And the question really is, is there enough in this record to support a finding that he would now make? 

 And he can still leave an out here in the sense that when he tells Microsoft to come in with its plan of reorganization that they can raise these various points. So it -- and he also, remember, at the outset said he wanted the remedy phase completed within 60 days. That 60 days runs tomorrow. So certainly Microsoft had noticed. 

 BAY: Real briefly, what are the options for Microsoft once a ruling comes down? 

 ARQUIT: Microsoft will presumably file its notice of appeal right away, even though they have 60 days, presumably they`ll do it quickly. They will then seek to have any relief that`s ordered in the interim stayed, mean stopped during the period of appeal. 

 BAY: To prevent those interim behavioral restraints from being put into place? ARQUIT: Exactly. Or they could seek a very quick appeal, or they could ask the district court to send it directly to the Supreme Court, but I don`t think they`re likely to do that. 

 BAY: OK, I expect we`ll see a flurry of activity after that ruling. 

 Kevin Arquit, thank you for joining us. 

 ARQUIT: Thank you. 

 BAY: Still to come on MONEYLINE, Motorola goes outside the company to get the job done. We`ll you about the largest outsourcing deal ever in the electronics industry. 

 And from black gold to clear gold, an `80s oil tycoon bets his money on one of nature`s most precious resources -- a MONEYLINE special report. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: In tonight`s "MONEYLINE Movers," HotJobs.com (URL: http://www.hotjobs.com/) up nearly 1 1/2, or more than 14 percent, on an upgrade from PaineWebber (URL: http://www.painewebber.com/) and a new price target of $15 a share. Fatbrain (URL: http://www.fatbrain.com/) gained nearly 2, an increase of 25 percent. The company says growth in its business-to-business programs will help it beat street estimates for the first quarter. Internet services company iXL Enterprises (URL: http://www.ixl.com/) adding nearly 3 3/4. iXL forming an alliance with Intel to develop e-business products. It`s been a rough six months for iXL, down nearly 68 percent since hitting a 52-week high in January. 

 In other corporate news, Flextronics teaming up with Motorola in a five-year, $30 billion outsourcing deal. Motorola will funnel roughly 15 percent of its electronics manufacturing for wireless phones and pagers through Singapore-based Flextronics and buy a 5 percent stake in the company. The deal is the latest in a trend toward outsourcing in the electronics business. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 HERVE FRANCOIS, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Motorola is going to be able to benefit from streamlining their supply chain. It`s one of the biggest reasons we`ve been seeing these telecom giants outsourcing their manufacturing to contract manufacturers. Secondly, we`re going to be seeing -- I think Motorola is going to be delivering their products to the market in a much quicker fashion. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: Shares of Flextronics jumping nearly 4 1/2, while Motorola down nearly 2 3/4. It was a volatile day for Motorola stock, as Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch analysts debated which way the stock is headed after analysts met with the company. Lucent Technologies paying $4.5 billion for the remaining shares of Chromatis Networks that it does not already own. Lucent`s move designed to bump Nortel Networks (URL: http://www.nortelnetworks.com/) out of the lead position in the optical networking industry. Shares of Lucent down 3/4 to 57 3/8. 

 In tonight`s "Sector Report": oil drillers. Schlumberger (URL: http://www.slb.com/) will pay Baker Hughes $500 million to combine the companies` seismic assets. The new venture, Western Geco, will detect underground oil and gas. A Goldman Sachs analyst tells MONEYLINE, the deal added strength to the already attractive group. Schlumberger gained more than 2 1/2, Baker Hughes (URL: http://www.bakerhughes.com/)  up more than 2. Halliburton (URL: http://www.halliburton.com/) rose 2. Transocean (URL: http://www.deepwater.com/) gained 2 1/4. Phillips (URL: http://www.ml.com/) , which raised its earnings estimates. 

 Still ahead on MONEYLINE: seeing beneath the surface to find a potential fortune. We`ll tell you how a Texas oil baron is drawing on the value of water in his new venture. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: A MONEYLINE special report now on the rising value of a commodity many  of us take for granted. From the Midwest to California, drought conditions have either arrived or are expected soon. That is adding urgency to growing efforts nationwide to create a more efficient water market. In fact, water is becoming so precious that some farmers are selling it to thirsty cities instead of using it to irrigate crops. And water is what one famous Texas oil tycoon hopes will flow through his planned multibillion-dollar pipeline. 

 Casey Wian reports from Roberts County, Texas. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CASEY WIAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The last time most folks heard from Texas oil man Boone Pickens was during the mid-1980s, when he launched a series of attempts to take over much bigger oil companies, such as Phillips, Gulf and Unocal. The man who`s been described as a real-life J.R. Ewing did make some noise in 1989, buying a billion-dollar stake in a Tokyo auto parts company. Then in the early `90s, weak natural gas prices ultimately cost Pickens control of his company, Mesa Petroleum. 

 But for most of the last decade, Pickens has been laying low. Not anymore. At age 72, Pickens now is working on what may be his best deal yet. It`s not about oil or gas, but plain old water. 

 BOONE PICKENS, CEO, MESA WATER: I got in the water business because I owned a ranch in Roberts County, Texas. 

 WIAN: Pickens` 24,000-acre spread in the Texas panhandle has cattle, a stable full of dogs for quail hunting and an abundance of water. The land here is too hilly to irrigate crops. While Pickens and a handful of neighbors have enough water to support a big city, the nearest big city is hundreds of miles away. But Pickens has a plan to cash  in on Roberts County`s liquid asset. 

 PICKENS: I got together with some of my neighbors, and I said that I think that I can go out and find a buyer, but I said, it`s got to be a huge project and a big idea to move this water to a metropolitan area in the state of Texas. 

 WIAN: Here`s the plan: Pickens wants to buy options on water rights for 200,000 acres of Texas panhandle land. He`s offering ranchers $350 an acre for their water rights, which he says is more than the land itself is worth. Once he has commitments for enough water, Pickens wants to build a $2 billion pipeline to carry the water to parched cities as far away as San Antonio or El Paso. 

 PICKENS: If I`m successful in doing this, it would mean to Roberts County ranchers probably somewhere, oh, $70 million to $100 million. And that`s a lot of money to a county that only has 967 residents. 

 WIAN: So far, Pickens says he`s about three-quarters of the way to his 200,000-acre goal. 

 (on camera): But some of his neighbors are refusing to sell, saying they`re afraid Pickens will drain their land dry. 

 (voice-over): Pickens says that won`t happen, partly because of laws against anyone depleting more than half of the area`s water supply, and because he needs water, too. 

 PICKENS: So when you hear the remark made that, oh, he`s going to -- Boone`s going to just turn it into a dustbowl, well that`s ridiculous. There`s no way I`m ever going to -- I mean, the only property I own is right here. 

 WIAN: While Pickens` plan relies on old-fashioned deal-making skills, others are using technology to bring water to thirsty customers more efficiently. Azurix, a spinoff of energy giant Enron, went public last year. It has launched a Web site called water2water, where those with too much can meet those with not enough and make deals. 

 REBECCA MARKS, CEO, AZURIX: We think water`s a very undervalued resource, and this begins to bring the opportunity together for people to see what value is associated with the resource that they have, whether that`s a farmer that wants to sell water because he would make more money by selling to a municipality rather than using water as irrigation to grow his crops, or whether it`s a municipality that needs to buy water to increase their supply. 

 WIAN: Azurix is one of 17 bidders competing in the largest water  buy in history. Southern California`s Metropolitan Water District services 17 million people in an area where rain is forecast to be 20 percent below average for the next two decades. So the nation`s biggest water district is asking private companies, in effect, to provide drought insurance. 

 RON GASTELUM, METROPOLITAN WATER DISTRICT: In a drought year, for example, we may not have enough water, and so they would market water to us in those dry years, and obviously, we`re willing to pay a market price. Our job is to try and create as competitive an environment as possible. 

 WIAN: Public utilities like the MWD have billions of taxpayer dollars invested in water delivery and treatment systems, so it`s unlikely a truly free market for water will develop anytime soon. But in places like California and Texas, where Boone Pickens` plan is part  of another big municipal water buy, competition is intensifying. Texas has had its oil boom and California a gold rush. With global climate changes and growing demand for water, the development of a competitive market for water may have a bigger long-term impact. 

 Casey Wian, CNN Financial News, Roberts County, Texas. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Up next, "Ahead of the Curve," some of what you need to know tonight, before the markets open tomorrow. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: This week, several economic reports hit the Street, and tomorrow, expect two more pieces of the puzzle. The National Association of Purchasing Managers Index expected to show continued strength in the manufacturing sector, with a predicted reading of 55.3. Also keep an eye out for the latest figures on construction spending. Economists expect no change in April, after last month`s gain of 1.4 percent. One economist we spoke with blames a long winter for the decreased activity. And watch shares of Aetna. After the bell, it confirmed it`s in talks to sell all or part of its financial services and international units to ING Group. In after-hours trading, Aetna jumped 2 1/4, after gaining more than $4 during the regular session. 

 That`s MONEYLINE for this Wednesday. I`m Willow Bay. Tomorrow, both Stuart and I will be in Atlanta for CNN`s 20th anniversary celebration. Terry Keenan will be here with all the day`s financial news. We hope that you`ll join her. 

 Thanks for joining us tonight. 

 "CROSSFIRE" is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute 

 the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or  in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions  (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw5v0008m


 Carrollton, Texas-Based Mobile Phones Distributor Issues  Profit Warning 

 Jennifer Files 
271 words
27 May 2000
Texas
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 CellStar Corp. said Friday that its second-quarter financial results will be significantly worse than expected and that it may exit some lines of business or geographic markets, find other ways to cut costs, and make "certain management changes" to revive sales and profit margins. 

 Investors were already bracing for a weak quarter -- with an average earnings estimate of 16 cents a share -- but the company said it would instead report a net loss. 

 "It obviously caught a lot of people by surprise, and a lot of people were upset," said Dan Ross, an analyst at Sanders Morris Harris in Houston. 

 Shares in the Carrollton-based distributor of mobile phones and related products lost nearly 60 percent of their value, ending Friday trading at $2.44. 

 Mr. Ross said the fall was sharper than the stock deserves but added that "a lot of the investors that are selling today are patient investors," meaning that they're institutional shareholders who've held on to the stock during other rounds of bad news. Mr. Ross said he's expecting one-time write-offs of $5 million to $15 million, as the company decides how it will phase out some businesses. 

 A company spokesman could not be reached for comment, but CellStar said in a news release that it will phase out much of its redistribution business in Miami and North America because of volatility, lower profit margins and higher credit risks. 

 It will probably also curtail or change its Brazilian operations, now conducted through a joint venture, citing a poor business environment. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw5r00ybz




 UPDATE 2-Office Depot warns of 2nd-quarter profit shortfall. 

 By Nadja Rogoszynski 
661 words
26 May 2000
17:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, May 26 (Reuters) - Shares of Office Depot Inc. dropped to a year low on Friday after the largest U.S. office supplies retailer said it expected second-quarter earnings to come in below current Wall Street estimates, as disappointing sales and a strong dollar squeezed profits. 

 The Delray Beach, Fla.-based company said it expected to post earnings 4 to 6 cents per share below the 24 cent consensus estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial, a research company that tracks such forecasts. It was the second time the retailer, which operates 836 office supply superstores in the United States and Canada, was forced to issue a profit warning in the past four quarters, analysts said. 

 It attributed the latest setback to slower-than-expected May sales in stores opened at least a year and cost-savings efforts that have taken longer to implement than the company anticipated. In addition, a strong U.S. currency reduced the dollar value of revenues generated outside the United States. The company has operations in 19 countries, including Japan, Australia, Germany, France and Italy, according to Hoover's Company Profiles. 

 "While we saw improvement in comparable-store sales in the first quarter of this year, performance in the second quarter has failed to meet our expectations," David Fuente, chairman and chief executive of Office Depot, said in a statement. "The greatest sales shortfall occurred in the technology area in our retail stores during the month of May." 

 After the news, shares of Office Depot were down 2-7/8 at 7-9/16 late Friday morning on the New York Stock Exchange, after reaching a fresh 52-week low of 6-7/8, far off its high of 23-13/16 last June. 

 Shares of two Office Depot competitors also fell. Staples Inc. dropped 1-1/4 to a year-low of 15-11/16, and OfficeMax Inc. dipped 3/16 at 5-1/4, near its 52-week low of 4-7/16. 

 Indeed, signs that consumer demand may have started to slip recently have put further pressure on many retailing stocks, which last year languished while sectors with stronger growth prospects, notably tech stocks, surged. 

 Last week, investment bank Goldman Sachs cut its rating on 12 major retailers on expectations of a slowdown in consumer spending in the second half of the year. Goldman said the rating cuts were based on macro-economic trends rather than individual company fundamentals. 

 Even so, analysts on Friday were quick to point out that Office Depot's problems were in part company specific. 

 "This is the company's second miss in the last four quarters - it highlights the fact that turnarounds are difficult," said analyst Ursula Moran at Sanford C. Bernstein. "They are struggling to reverse some disappointing performances from last year." 

 Last August, the company warned of lower-than-expected earnings for the second half of 1999, blaming soft sales of lower-margin technology-related products and high inventory levels. 

 "It's just a continuation of a business that's been trying to turn around and has trouble of doing it," said Daniel Binder, analyst at Buckingham Research Group. 

 After Office Depot's profit warning, JP Morgan said it was lowering its rating on the company's stock to a "market perform" from a "long-term buy" based on a more cloudy earnings outlook for office supply retailers. 

 "Follow up conversations suggested that competition has heated up, and Office Depot plans to review store pricing. So pricing may go lower," said analyst Danielle Turnof Fox in a research report. "Although many of the issues at Office Depot were company specific, we have been growing less confident in our estimates for Staples as well. 

 The analyst lowered her rating on Staples to a "long-term buy" from "buy." 

 ((Nadja Rogoszynski-New York Newsdesk (212) 859-1700)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010820dw5q04kil


 Business 
 MONEYLINE 

 Stuart Varney, Steve Young, Ceci Rodgers, Bruce Francis, Fred Katayama, Susan Lisovicz, Terry Keenan, Kitty Pilgrim 
7,559 words
26 May 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE: Tonight on MONEYLINE, the government delivers its final word on how to punish Microsoft -- break it in two. Will the judge listen? 

 A strong hint that six rate hikes are finally working: Orders plunge for 

 big-ticket goods. We`ll look at fears the economy may slow too much. 

 Business is certainly slowing for some top retailers, as Office Depot (URL: http://www.officedepot.com/)  sets off a profit alarm. We`ll take a "Bottom Line" look at another retail disaster this week: Costco (URL: http://www.costco.com/) . 

 And we told you last night he was selling his prized possessions. Today he sold off his biggest asset of all: a stunning twist in the saga of  Saul Steinberg. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Stuart Varney. 

 Good evening, everyone. Willow is off tonight. 

 The most important antitrust battle of the high-tech era is fast approaching its climax. The government today made its final move in the U.S. versus Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) , asking a federal judge to split the company in two. The Justice Department made only minor revisions to its original punishment plan, even though the judge questioned whether a two-way split would just create two monopolies rather than one. Now the fate of one of the world`s most valuable companies is in the hands of the court. 

 Steve Young has the latest. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In sticking with the two-part breakup plan, the government made some technical changes and accused Microsoft of cynicism in court and distortion. The company is expected to file a final comment late next Wednesday, and Judge Jackson could enter his final judgment as soon as the next day. 

 Microsoft hopes to win a reversal from the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals on procedural grounds. 

 C. BOYDEN GRAY, COUNSEL FOR MICROSOFT: It isn`t that Microsoft didn`t have  a chance to know that there might be a breakup. The issue is whether there`s anything in the record to support it. And the government`s "evidence," so-called, is untested, un-cross-examined. 

 YOUNG: Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson expressed admiration for a brief calling for a three-way Microsoft break up. But many antitrust experts say it would be a real stunner if he ordered that on his own. 

 SPENCER WILLIAMS, BROOKLYN LAW SCHOOL: I think it would be highly unlikely that without doing more hearings or hearing any witnesses he would just go with an amicus brief rather than the position of the government. 

 YOUNG: In a concession, the government eased one restriction that would have hammered the Microsoft stock holdings of co-founder Paul Allen. He left Microsoft back in 1983, when the company had fewer than 500 employees. 

 Supporting its argument for a breakup, the government unsealed an e-mail Wednesday that Bill Gates sent after the main part of the trial was over. It said, "Microsoft should make products that`s don`t work as well with the competing operating system from Palm computing. 

 DAN WALL, LATHAM AND WATKINS: The recently uncovered evidence is perhaps the most damaging evidence to Microsoft in the whole case. This notion that we`re going to intentionally design a product so that it doesn`t work with others is inexcusable from an antitrust standpoint. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 YOUNG: Microsoft says it will delay by three weeks a crucial meeting with financial analysts and reporters that had been set for next Thursday. The all-day session is scheduled to explain how the company hopes to duplicate its PC success with an operating system for the Internet. It`s now tough for Microsoft to continue to maintain that despite the momentous trial it`s business as usual -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: That`s a surprise, isn`t it? I mean, it has some significance, right? 

 YOUNG: Yes, this is not the first delay, but this is probably the most important thing that Microsoft is set to do since 1995, when Bill Gates said the company would be hard-core about the Internet. 

 VARNEY: Fair enough. Steve Young, thank you. 

 On Wall Street today, Microsoft shares fell fractionally after a steep slide yesterday. The stock is down more than 40 percent since the beginning of April, when the judge found that Microsoft had broke antitrust law, about $235 billion in market value wiped out. 

 The proposal today from the government is just a prelude to the blockbuster decision by the judge, which could come as early as next week. CNN, MONEYLINE, and CNNfn.com will be following all the developments in this story with coast-to-coast coverage and in-depth analysis. We`ll have it all when that decision comes down. 

 As for Wall Street today, it seemed less fixated on Microsoft and more concerned with making a Memorial Day getaway. Trading slowed to a crawl on both the Big Board and the Nasdaq. 

 The Dow did shoot higher as the day began, but retreated just as quickly, and then dipped in and out of negative territory, finally ending down 24. 

 The Nasdaq, which has been regularly making 100-point moves this year, ended the day off less than a point. 

 A bit more drama in the bond market, where bonds scored their fourth winning session out of five in a shortened pre-holiday session. The 10-year note up half a point, the 30-year long bond up 26/32. 

 Triggering the bond market rally today, a possible sign that history`s longest expansion may just be losing some steam. Orders for durable goods -- big-ticket items, like refrigerators for example -- plunged in April in the biggest monthly drop since December of 1991. And that wasn`t the only report out today suggesting that six interest rates hikes  may finally be working to slow the economy. 

 Ceci Rodgers reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CECI RODGERS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Can it be? The long-awaited slowdown in consumer spending may be at hand. Incomes outpaced spending for a second straight month in April, the first time that`s happened in two years, personal income rising a strong 7/10 of a percent while spending rose just 4/10. And April`s drop in orders for big-ticket manufactured goods was the largest in almost nine years. 

 A record decline in electronics and fewer orders for automobiles reflected weakness in the consumer sector, while business spending on capital goods remained strong. That adds to recent evidence of a slight slowdown in economic activity. 

 MARIO DEROSE, EDWARD JONES: We may have saw it yesterday. The existing homes sales were down a bit. I mean, that`s the most interest-sensitive sector of the economy. 

 RODGERS: Existing home sales fell in April, as did retail sales. And private surveys show retailers see more weakness this month. In fact, analysts say auto sales may post their first monthly decline in 18 months. 

 A weaker economy would be welcome at the Federal Reserve, but analysts say the signs are still too tentative to head off more interest rate hikes. 

 DAVID BLITZER, STANDARD & POOR`S: Income continues to be strong. Consumer spending continues to be strong. And the Fed, which has been worried about these, will continue to be worried. RODGERS: The best predictor of such hikes, the Fed funds futures contract, has seen a retreat in its implied forecast for short-term interest rates, now pointing to just a quarter-point hike at the June Fed meeting after pricing in a half-point move last week. 

 (on camera): Economists and the Fed will know more in a week, after they take a look at the first indicators for May: a key manufacturing survey and always-crucial employment report. 

 Ceci Rodgers, CNN Financial News, Chicago. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Well, today`s modest retreat on Wall Street caps a rough two weeks for the markets, a steady sell-off that followed the Fed`s decision to hike interest rates another half point. The Dow has taken a triple-digit dive in four of the past eight sessions, losing more than 630 points. The index is now off more than 12 percent from its high and back firmly in a correction. 

 The Nasdaq has taken a bigger tumble, ending lower in seven of the past eight sessions. It is down more than 36 percent from its high, the worst bear market for the Nasdaq in the past two decades. 

 Well clearly the Fed`s anti-inflation crusade has hurt the stock market over the past year. Since the first of six rate hikes back in the late June of last year, the Dow is down more than 6 percent. One critic argues that the Fed`s approach simply isn`t working. In a recent editorial, Eugene Ludwig, former comptroller of the currency, warns that Mr. Greenspan is taking a hatchet to the bull market, even threatening the economy needlessly. Well, Mr. Lugwig says there are better ways to keep inflation at bay, and he joins us now to explain. 

 Sir, good evening and welcome to MONEYLINE. 

 EUGENE LUDWIG, FORMER COMP. OF THE CURRENCY: Stuart, it`s nice to be on your show. 

 VARNEY: If you`re not going to raise interest rates to head off the threat of inflation, what are you going to do? 

 LUDWIG: Stuart, I think there are a lot of different policy options we ought to be exploring here. The economy`s been getting an A. I and many of my colleagues would like to see it continue to get As. We don`t  want to sort of see it get Bs and Cs. 

 The policies I would recommend are labor policies. I think that we have a very large pool of labor that`s not being counted in our labor statistics which we could take advantage of, and I think we ought to be exploring policy alternatives that take advantage of the American worker. 

 VARNEY: So there is a potential here for some wage-push inflation, but you would head it off by changing labor policies, perhaps to bring more people into the labor force? LUDWIG: That`s exactly right. The current economy`s done a wonderful thing. The more people you have employed, the less social ills you have. The thing that correlates best with lower crime rate is strong employment, so having strong employment is a very good thing. 

 There are really tens of millions of Americans who could be employed who are currently not employed and not counted in the labor statistics... 

 VARNEY: Sir, that is a very... 

 LUDWIG: ... I`ll bet... 

 VARNEY: That`s a very high number. Tens of millions of Americans who are not currently employed who could be in the labor force? That`s a very high number. 

 LUDWIG: Oh, yes. I -- even Labor Secretary Alexis Herman has said that if you count the people who currently need child care and transportation as well as the people who are working part-time and would like to work full time, the employment pool would jump from 5.5 million to 12 million. But in addition, there are people sitting at home that may well want to work. Senior citizens -- I`ll bet that you know someone in your family or a friend who is a senior citizen who is currently not working, who could work, and has a lot of skill that would  help our labor supply. 

 VARNEY: We keep them working in my family, Mr. Ludwig, but that`s another story entirely. 

 Now let`s suppose that the Fed raises interest rates, say, another two times a quarter point a piece, briefly, what kind of shape will this economy be in by the end of the year if the Fed does that? 

 LUDWIG: Well, these interest rate hikes do cause pain. There`s no doubt about it. When they`re absolutely necessary, it`s sort of like chemotherapy. There are times that interest rate policy certainly is necessary. But rather than employing chemotherapy, we ought to be looking for the scalpel, not the hatchet -- to mix metaphors a bit. There are scalpels we can use, and labor policy is a very important opportunity for us. It`s not just repairing damage, but increasing the supply of labor. It`s tremendously advantageous. 

 Just think of the senior citizens again. 

 VARNEY: OK. 

 LUDWIG: If you`re a senior citizen, historically, Stuart, you would have your Social Security benefits taken away for working. We don`t want to see that. 

 VARNEY: Fair enough. Eugene Ludwig, out of time, it was a pleasure having you on MONEYLINE. Thank you, sir. 

 LUDWIG: Pleasure, pleasure being here this evening. VARNEY: OK. Now, still to come on MONEYLINE, the dot.com meltdown has spread past those e-tailers. E-brokers have also taken a huge hit, and the future looks even weaker. We`re going to cover that for you. 

 Plus, profit worries at a brick and mortar retailer: Costco embarks on a costly expansion, and investors pay the price. "The Bottom Line" on this 

 retailing giant and its problems, still to come on MONEYLINE. 

 ANNOUNCER: From CNN`s New York headquarters, this is THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) tops our "MONEYLINE Movers" tonight. Shares of the company fell nearly three, but they were down more than six points intraday. It was the most actively traded stock on the Nasdaq. Analysts have expressed concern over how normalized trade relations with China would affect Qualcomm, but the company says the measure will actually  help, allowing it to deploy new technology in China which had been previously suspended. 

 Immunex  (URL: http://www.immunex.com/) lost more than 4 1/2 -- that`s 15 1/2 percent. PaineWebber (URL: http://www.painewebber.com/) cut the company`s 12-month price target to $30, after the company said its experimental asthma drug, Nuvance, failed to show an expected benefit in weekly results. 

 But Lucent (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) Technologies gained 3 3/4. An analyst at ABN Amro (URL: http://www.abnamro.com/) reiterated Lucent as a top pick. He expects the stock to reach 90 in a year. 

 And Goldman Sachs (URL: http://www.gs.com/) fell more than three points on top of its seven-point loss yesterday. That came on news of a downgrade by Merrill Lynch (URL: http://www.ml.com/) and Bear Stearns (URL: http://www.etrade.com/) , Ameritrade (URL: http://www.ameritradeholding.com/) and DLJdirect (URL: http://www.dljdirect.com/)  all declined to comment for our story. The quarter is still two-thirds of the way through, though, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: With an average decline of 70 percent, I`m not surprised there`s no comment there. Bruce Francis, thank you. 

 FRANCIS: My pleasure. 

 VARNEY: All right, coming up on MONEYLINE, the music phenomenon that`s rocking the industry and rolling out a legal battle. We`ll bring you the details on downloading the sound and the fury, coming up. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: We`ve been hearing a lot lately about the debate over downloading music from the Internet. It centers on music-sharing services like Napster. Some accuse them of piracy. Others say they`re giving the industry a welcome shakeup. The fight has led to lawsuits and this week, to congressional hearings. 

 Fred Katayama filed this "Briefing Book" on how downloading works and why it`s got so many people so worked up. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Nate Dulley, a freshman at USC, has collected more songs than a jukebox. But you will not find a huge stack of CDs here. The 350 songs reside on his computer, like this tune from the heavy metal band Metallica. And he got the songs for free, using software called Napster. 

 NATE DULLEY, STUDENT: I don`t even play my CDs anymore. I`m on this so much, like honestly, lately. 

 KATAYAMA: Like Nate, more than 70 percent of U.S. college students surveyed use Napster every month to get free songs from the Internet, according to the research firm Webnoize. The problem, critics say, most of the hundreds of thousands songs posted are illegal, and  so groups ranging from Metallica to the recording industry have sued Napster. 

 LARS ULRICH, METTALLICA: We own the rights to those, we have paid for them, and we want to be in control of what happens to them. 

 KATAYAMA: What made online music a reality: the advent of MP3 (URL: http://www.mp3.com/) , a file format that allows users to download near-CD-quality sound. To listen to digital music, users need a player such as Real Jukebox or Music Match, which they can download for free. Then they go to web sites such as MP3.com and scour to find the songs, or they download the Napster software. 

 We`ll focus on Napster, since it`s the most popular method. Users type in their request. Nate looks for "I Disappear" by Metallica. Seconds later, a list of other Napster members who have the song on their computers pops up. Nate double clicks, connecting his PC with that of another person who has the song. Minutes later, the song is copied onto his hard drive. 

 DULLEY: I`m going to download another thousand songs. 

 KATAYAMA: Nate found everything from the USC fight song to "Smoke on the Water." 

 The recording industry has been winning the early rounds in the courts. A federal judge has ruled that MP3.com`s database violates copyright law. And earlier this month, a federal judge issued a preliminary ruling against Napster. She rejected the company`s contention that it was a "mere conduit" for songs online and was therefore not liable for its users` actions. 

 Now even Congress is getting involved, holding hearings on Napster. But tech experts say legal victories will not solve the industry`s woes, since new ways to download music keep surfacing. 

 ARAM SINNREICH, JUPITER COMMUNICATIONS: It`s like a hydra -- you cut off one head and 12 more spring up. 

 KATAYAMA: Experts say the free software Gnutella poses a bigger threat. Gnutella software shared freely online that allows users to download music files. But unlike Napster, Gnutella has no centralized server and no company owns it. 

 JOHN COFFEE, COLUMBIA LAW SCHOOL: There`s really no one to sue. There`s just a faceless sea in this online community of hackers who are using this new technology. 

 KATAYAMA: One analyst said the recording industry should provide an alternative to Napster that offers things like virus protection and better sound quality that would compel users to pay for something. 

 (on camera): For now, the legal battle is over music. But as more consumers get faster Internet access over the next few years, experts say the next battleground will be over downloading bootlegged movies. 

 Fred Katayama, CNN Financial News, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: It`s Friday, and there`s much more to come on MONEYLINE. We`ll be right back after this. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Now here`s what we have for you in our next half hour. End game in a landmark case against Microsoft. We`ll get a preview of what may be a decisive week, waiting for a federal judge to determine Microsoft`s penalty for breaking antitrust law. And the corporate raider who already put his home and furnishings up for sale; he`s now unloading the company that he led for decades. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s headlines, Wall Street gets signs that the blazing U.S. economy may finally be cooling off, but is the boom really over, or just pausing for breath? 

 And another big retailer warns of weaker profits ahead: Office Depot feels the pinch of weaker sales and gets a rough response from investors. 

 Plus, an in-depth look at a discounting kingpin that this week sank into the market`s doghouse. Is the selling justified? We`ll check out  "The Bottom Line" at Costco. 

 First, though, more on our top story: another step closer to what could be one of the most important legal decisions of the digital age. The Justice Department today filed one of the last legal briefs of the two-year Microsoft antitrust trial, setting the stage for a penalty ruling as early as next week. As expected, the government did not push for the  most dramatic punishment against Microsoft, a three-way split. 

 Steve Young has been following the trial since the beginning and has more on this final phase -- Steve. YOUNG: Stuart, the government stuck to its 

 original game plan, having told the judge Wednesday a three-way split would be less efficient, would take longer and would be more disruptive to the company. 

 The only changes were purely technical. The government said Microsoft`s complaints about being denied due process are -- quote -- "a cynical ploy calculated to raise diversionary issues on appeal." The company will file its final comment on what it calls a corporate death penalty Wednesday, and Thomas Penfield Jackson could enter his final judgment as soon as the next day, which is Thursday, the very day Microsoft had planned to explain to the world its strategy to be more relevant in cyberspace by creating an Internet operating system. That session has now been delayed three weeks, the company acknowledging that no one would pay attention if it occurred as Microsoft faces its antitrust day of reckoning -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, Steve Young reporting. And thank you, Steve. 

 Our guest tonight asked this question in today`s "Wall Street Journal": What`s worse than two baby bills? His answer: three. Joining us now, Nicholas Economides, economics professor at the Stern School of Business. 

 Nicholas, welcome to the program. 

 PROF. NICHOLAS ECONOMIDES, NEW YORK UNIVERSITY: Thank you. 

 VARNEY: Why don`t that you think that a breakup into two or three parts is a good idea? 

 ECONOMIDES: It`s a bad idea, it`s a very bad idea. First of all, it won`t increase competition. It won`t make things better. Second, it has a huge cost on Microsoft and the U.S. economy. And third, it`s not necessary, it`s really not necessary given whatever Microsoft has done. 

 VARNEY: What impact on consumers? 

 ECONOMIDES: I think the impact on consumers is going to be very bad. The prices of software are going to increase. The prices of Windows or something that is a substitute for Windows, the operating systems, is going to go up, and that`s not something we want. 

 VARNEY: But wait a minute, back in 1981, when AT&T was dismantled, prices actually for long-distance phone calling went down. Why wouldn`t the same thing happen with Microsoft? 

 ECONOMIDES: Well, there are a number of reasons. There are a number of differences between the companies. First of all, Microsoft is a new company, a young company, flexible, with few managers. AT&T was 100 years old, many managers, many divisions running separately from each other so they could easily be separated. That`s the first problem. The second problem is that right now, Microsoft is a very innovative company. AT&T at that point in time was an old, regulated company, easy to break up. We didn`t really have big losses because of the breakup. We expect to have big losses because of the Microsoft breakup. 

 VARNEY: What impact on the over all high-tech industry in America, which has been so successful, if there is a break up? 

 ECONOMIDES: If there is a breakup, things are going to be very much uncertain for the rest of the industry. People wouldn`t know what to expect from antitrust. This, in my opinion, is a very radical move by the government against Microsoft. The same radical moves could happen against AOL, against Yahoo!, against other big names in the area, and we don`t really know if that`s going to happen. It`s creates uncertainty for this industry. 

 VARNEY: Nicholas Economides, we thank you very much for being with us tonight on MONEYLINE. Thank you, sir. 

 ECONOMIDES: Thank you. 

 VARNEY: Microsoft lost another 6 percent this week, as Wall Street shuddered at the idea of an even harsher penalty than expected. Today the stock slipped only fractionally, but that was enough to set another new low for the year for Microsoft. 

 Now the markets overall drifted into the holiday weekend, as a woeful week closed with a whimper. It was an up-and-down Friday for the Dow before closing down 24 points, back at 10229. For the week, it was a far uglier picture, down more than 3 percent, or 327 points. 

 As for the Nasdaq, turbulence reigned there, but the index closed basically as it began, off less than a point at 3205. On the week, however, the Nasdaq dropped nearly 5.5 percent, 185 points. 

 Checking some of today`s big movers: We had Lucent up 3 3/4. Intel gained nearly 2 1/2. But ALCOA (URL: http://www.alcoa.com/) was down nearly 3. Coca-Cola up 2. Applied Materials fell nearly 2 1/2. 

 Looming over Wall Street today, signs of a slowdown in durable goods --that`s orders for big-ticket items -- which dropped 6.4 percent. It was the biggest monthly drop in nearly nine years. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY (voice-over): Today`s economic numbers threw a new wrinkle into the outlook for interest rates, capping a week that many on Wall Street would really like to forget. 

 Nervous investors unsure of the Fed`s next move. The uncertainty made for a week of market gyrations. 

 DAVID POWER, EDWARD JONES: Investors are waiting to see whether or not the Fed can, you know, generate a soft landing for the U.S. economy. And until investors get some sense that the Fed has accomplished that goal, there`s a lot of people that`d just rather sit on the sidelines. 

 JOHN MANLEY, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: You have a situation where people don`t have firm convictions, so it takes very little to get them off-center. You have, you know -- you`ve greased the floor, so to speak. So any little thing moves things tends to move things around. 

 VARNEY: Several events shook investors this week. 

 General Motors (URL: http://www.gm.com/) , that stock plunged more than 10 percent on Monday after GM disappointed investors by offering to swap fewer Hughes Electronic tracking shares. Wednesday, United Airlines proposed buyout of US Airways (URL: http://www.usairways.com/) stalled with investors who balked at the regulatory hurdles. Thursday, analysts downgraded the big brokerage stocks, citing slow trading. Goldman Sachs led the decline, losing nearly seven points. It fell again today, sinking more than 3 1/2. Other big financials followed suit. General Motors shares fell, again. General Electric (URL: http://www.ge.com/) shares, Home Depot and Wal*Mart (URL: http://www.wal-mart.com/) slid as well. And all of this understand the pall of a looming proposal to break up Microsoft. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: People are very nervous right now. There`s been a lot of damage done in the technology sector. And there`s a lot of people out there right now that just don`t want to stand up and catch a falling knife. And so for the most part, trying to the forecast bottom is extremely difficult in that type of market environment. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Well, that leaves investors on rather shaky footing as we head into the Memorial Day weekend, especially as light volume amplifies the volatility that has plagued these markets. 

 Well just ahead, we`ll take the market`s pulse with strategist Tim Hayes and check out the prospects for a rebound when all of this selling is done. 

 We`ll be back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s "MONEYLINE Focus," a closer look into the ongoing slump in stocks. Our next guest sees Wall Street stuck in a cyclical bear market. One sign of trouble: the meager volume on the exchanges. 

 We`re joined now from Tampa, Florida, by Tim Hayes, global equity strategist at Ned Davis Research. 

 Tim, welcome back. 

 TIM HAYES, GLOBAL EQUITY STRATEGIST: Thanks, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: With the Nasdaq closing today at 3205, do you believe that`s anywhere near a bottom? 

 HAYES: I don`t believe so. I think the low volume is a sign that we may see more volume on the downside and we`ll break the current levels, not only unsuccessfully test them, but go down to new lows. 

 VARNEY: Is this volume sort of a key signal to you of the state of the market now and where we`re going in the future? 

 HAYES: Yes, I think it`s a dangerous sign. What you want to see is especially with the market drifting lower, you want to see very high volume, putting in a lasting low that will indicate that there is enough fear in the market, that there`s enough negative sentiment for that low to last, but this kind of light volume is not a good situation. 

 VARNEY: So what you`d want to see then, to show that the selling is over would be a high-volume, big-day sell-off, or a big-week sell-off, with a volume that`s very, very strong, sort of a capitulation by the sellers, right? 

 HAYES: That`s right. You want to see very high volume, and also there`s going to be downside volume relative to advancing volume, say a ratio of about nine times downside volume to upside volume, and then after that, for the confirmation that the bottom`s in-place to have the opposite situation happen on the upside. 

 VARNEY: And that would be a high-volume rally, I take it. 

 HAYES: A high volume rally with heavy upside volume relative to downside volume. 

 VARNEY: Is the key to all of this the Fed and what the Fed is doing with interest rates. 

 HAYES: It really is. We`re in an environment right now where it`s going to be hard for the market to break out of this situation. The -- inflationary pressures and the Fed raising rates are going to make it difficult to know when to bottom out and stay bottomed out, but to  have any kind of rally that`s going to last beyond more than a very short amount of time. 

 VARNEY: Tim, you sound rather bearish for the next few months. Do you have any safe heavens to recommend for us? 

 HAYES: Well, I think the traditionally defensive areas like foods and energy stocks and utilities and health care stocks, drug stocks would be 

 something to keep an eye on, especially a large position of cash. We are at actually 40 percent stock, 30 percent bonds, 30 percent cash, which is a very defensive position and a very high cash position. 

 VARNEY: It`s a totally different market from what it was like in, say, January, February, March, isn`t it? The mood has completely changed, hasn`t it? 

 HAYES: That`s right. In fact, that`s somewhat of a good sign, because the sentiment has gotten more pessimistic. I don`t think we`re at the pessimism levels that would really indicate that we`re ready to bottom out. But certainly, there probably is some light at the end of the tunnel now as opposed to where we were earlier in the year. 

 VARNEY: Well, we wish you could have delivered a different message as we head into the holiday weekend, but we thank you for what we`ve got. 

 Tim Hayes from Ned Davis Research, thanks very much for being with us, sir. 

 HAYES: OK. Thanks, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: OK, Tim. 

 Next on MONEYLINE, a dramatic follow-up to a story we brought you last night: Saul Steinberg today selling something even more valuable than his famed art collection. We`ll bring you the story next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Last night, we told you about a very unusual case of downsizing. Saul Steinberg, a corporate legend of the `80s, selling off his enviable art and furniture collection at an auction today at Sotheby`s. And today that downsizing took a stunning turn: Steinberg selling the company he has long led, Reliance Group Holdings, to Leucadia National. 

 Susan Lisovicz has the story. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Reliance made money by insuring clients against natural disasters, injuries in the workplace, and other unwelcome events. But with increasing operating expenses and losses, experts say Reliance itself was a disaster in the making. 

 Its stock crumbled nearly 90 percent from $19 two years ago to just a bit more than $2 1/2 today, close to its 52-week low. Analysts say Reliance --like many insurers -- is a victim of the times. Tenacious competition has pushed down premiums, which have plummeted from more than 20 percent in 1986 to less than 3 percent this year. 

 But many analysts say the man who has led the company for decades, Saul Steinberg, did not help the bottom line. They say he and his family, who own more than 40 percent of the stock, ran the company with little accountability. 

 BOB HARTWIG, INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE: Reliance had some unique features in terms of how it was run. It was essentially a family-owned operation for the most part, which is very unusual in this industry where most companies would have a fair number of outside directors. 

 Leucadia National Corporation is buying Reliance in a stock swap valued at $293 million. Some analysts say that`s about one-third of Reliance`s book value. But Steinberg said in a statement that the sale represents the best alternative for shareholders, employees and customers. 

 As a corporate raider, Steinberg made failed attempts at Walt Disney and Chemical Bank. This time Steinberg`s company was the target. 

 CHRISTINE LAI, J.P. MORGAN: I think it`s unlikely that Reliance would have decided to sell itself if the property-casualty insurance industry was really going to improve materially over the next six to nine months. 

 LISOVICZ: The sale of Reliance came on the same day that Steinberg unloaded $12.5 million of his art and furniture in an auction at Sotheby`s. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 LISOVICZ: Steinberg stepped down as CEO earlier this year, but remained as  chairman to focus on strategic planning. One of the company`s turnaround steps was to sell its most profitable unit to Travelers for $580 million. But Reliance still carried more than half a billion dollars in debt due later this year, debt that Leucadia is now assuming. VARNEY: Quite a switch. 

 Susan Lisovicz, thanks very much. 

 Now, checking some of tonight`s "MONEYLINE Movers": S1 jumped nearly seven points after several analysts came out with positive comments on the financial software maker. Late yesterday, S1 received a $244 million investment from several financial services firms. S1 software helps financial institutions offer online banking. 

 Deere fell 3 1/4. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter downgraded the farm equipment  maker to a neutral rating. It said Deere has passed its $49 price target and currently trades at a large premium to its competitors. And Federal Mogul down nearly 2 1/2 to a 52-week low. It`s an auto parts manufacturer, and it warned late yesterday that second-quarter and full-year results will fall sharply below estimates due to the strong dollar. Shares of Federal Mogul have had a rough year indeed and are currently down more than 80 percent from the 52-week high. 

 Federal Mogul is just the latest company to blame its profit shortfall on currency troubles, and it probably will not be the last. 

 Terry Keenan explains why in tonight`s "Behind the Numbers." 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 TERRY KEENAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Stuart, we`re only a little more than halfway through the second quarter, but the strong U.S. dollar is already getting a bum rap from companies who say their results are being hurt by the currency`s amazing strength against the single European currency. 

 Since its creation 16 months ago, the euro has lost more than 25 percent of its value against the dollar. This year alone, it is down nearly 10 percent. For U.S. companies with big European operations, this can mean weaker sales since the almighty dollar makes it harder for U.S. manufacturers to sell their products at competitive prices. 

 Today Office Depot shocked the Street when it said earnings would come in sharply below expectations due to the dampening effect of the strong dollar on its overseas sales. And Office Depot is not alone. McDonald`s was the first to warn earlier in the month. With 40 percent of its operating earnings coming from European sales, McDonald`s CEO Jack Greenberg warned that the weak euro has -- quote -- "an insidious effect." 

 Last week, Coca-Cola Enterprises (URL: http://www.cokecce.com/) plunged more than 25 percent due primarily to currency concerns. Economists say while many companies do hedge their currency risk, it`s not enough. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 ED YARDENI, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES: They do have hedging programs to offset some of the strength of the dollar, but at the end of the day, it doesn`t help them. And many of them are already under a lot of pricing pressures here at home and in lots of other markets around the world. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 KEENAN: Today, the euro did rebound a bit, trading above 92 cents on the dollar, a level many say is key to stabilizing the currency`s value. Still, don`t be surprised if other companies cry currency concerns in advance of their second-quarter results. 

 Among those with high European exposure, Coca-Cola, Clorox  (URL: http://www.clorox.com/) and Colgate-Palmolive (URL: http://www.colgate.com/) -- Stuart. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: All right. Thanks very much, Terry. 

 Well, as Terry reported, Office Depot disappointed investors with a second-quarter profit warning today, saying weak sales and a strong dollar will squeeze profits 4 to 6 cents lower than analysts expected. 

 After that profit warning, several analysts downgraded Office Depot. And that, in turn, weighed on other retailers. 

 Checking investor reaction in tonight`s "Sector Report": Office Depot sank to a 52-week low, down more than three points. It was the most active stock on the big board. Staples lost nearly a point and a quarter. And also lower today, electronic retailers like Best Buy, Circuit City and Tandy. 

 Still to come on MONEYLINE, Costco in the bargain bin. We`ll have the bottom line on the warehouse club retailer that has crushed --it was crushed this week on Wall Street. That story in a moment. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Turning now to our special Friday feature, "The Bottom Line": a close-up look at a company and the role it plays in the overall economy. Tonight: Costco. The wholesale superstore that sells everything from toilet paper to computers is seen by some as a proxy for the economy. If that`s the case, this economic expansion could be in trouble. This week, Costco said future earnings would be disappointing, and saw its market capitalization shrink by more than $6 billion. 

 But as Kitty Pilgrim reports, Costco`s problems have less to do with the changing economic landscape than with its own jumbo-sized ambitions. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 KITTY PILGRIM, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Costco does nothing small --the bulk packages, sprawling selections, acres of aisles. America buying big and living large. Cheaper by the dozen, if not by the gross, it`s an outsize company. With double-digit growth, 305 stores spanning the continent, including Mexico and Canada, Costco has built another 13 of its so-called clubs so far this year. They`re planning 10 to 12 more, and for fiscal 2001, 35 to 40 new clubs, 60 percent of which would be in areas never served in bulk. 

 JIM SINEGAL, CEO, COSTCO: We think we have a window of opportunity to open units across the nation, most particularly in the U.S., and I think that we`ll continue on that schedule. 

 PILGRIM: But expansion is expensive. Up until now, the stock had been a retail runaway, up steadily for the last year. But this week, when Costco tried to trim its outlook to account for expansion costs, its botched briefing to Street analysts landed with a thud in the market. 

 Despite third-quarter profits up 14 percent, investors felt let down. They slammed the stock, knocking it down nearly 22 percent on Wednesday, the worst point drop in eight years, trimming $4 billion in market value off the company. 

 SALLY WALLICK, LEGG MASON WOOD WALKER: Certainly it was a very extreme reaction, but if you were to say to me, therefore, do you think the stock is likely to bounce right back? The answer is no. What`s happened is  Costco has become a bit more of a wait-and-see stock now. 

 PILGRIM: Costco`s woes are not unique. Rising interest rates may slow down shopping carts and the economy as a whole, but analysts say Costco`s wide range of price and product mix makes it resistant to economic upsets. 

 DANIEL BARRY, MERRILL LYNCH: They have an outstanding club. It`s regarded as the best in the business. There`s only two others. There`s Sams , which is a part of Wal-Mart, and they generally have a better operation than BJ`s (URL: http://www.bjswholesale.com/) , which is the other competitor. 

 PILGRIM (on camera): This Costco in Queens, New York is 100,000 square feet. It sells everything from fine china and crystal to disposable diapers to watermelons. 

 (voice-over): If the China doesn`t sell, the watermelons will. 

 But one thing in tight supply at Costco is labor, and that costs big. Costco says they plan to raise entry level wages 20 percent in June. 

 SINEGAL: High wages, in our mind, is synonymous with good quality workers. 

 PILGRIM: And a good operation is what analysts ultimately focus on. 

 BARRY: Everything was going great. And what happened is I think they didn`t realize that that step up, that expansion was going to cost them as much as it did. 

 PILGRIM: And with that kind of expansion, the future looks, well, at least, large. 

 Kitty Pilgrim, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: And up next, "Ahead of the Curve," some of what you need to know tonight before those markets open up again next week. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Looking ahead to next week, the markets are closed on Monday for Memorial Day, but on Tuesday, regular trading resumes. Here`s a preview of what`s on tap: more on the Microsoft decision. The company is expected to reply late Wednesday to the government`s latest breakup proposal, and Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson could make his decision on the  company`s penalty as early as Thursday, 

 Several economic reports are expected next week, and they include the May employment report, new home sales, the latest on the manufacturing sector and consumer confidence. 

 Also next week, Hewlett-Packard will hold its annual analyst meeting in New York City. 

 And just a quick programming note: tune into MONEYLINE on Monday for a special Memorial Day edition, as we go inside several companies undergoing dramatic evolutions. We`ll talk in-depth with the chief executives of Oracle, Larry Ellison, plus, the third-generation leader of Motorola, Christopher Galvin, and last, but by no means least, the media mogul behind Viacom, Sumner Redstone. Their take on where their businesses are going and what`s happening in the economy. That`s Monday at 6:30 p.m. Eastern Time. 

 And that is MONEYLINE for this Friday. I`m Stuart Varney. And we thank you for joining us. And please, enjoy that holiday weekend. 

 "CROSSFIRE" is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is  granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary  rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so  long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw5q0008j




THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS
 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 Financial Issues and Microsoft Lead Indexes Lower; Dow Has Biggest Loss in 3 Weeks  

By Bloomberg News
870 words
26 May 2000
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 7, Column 1
English
 c. 2000 New York Times Company  

 Stocks fell broadly yesterday, led lower by financial shares after the Goldman Sachs Group told analysts that its second-quarter profit would most likely fall short of expectations.  

 The Dow Jones industrial average had its biggest loss in three weeks as Goldman's warning brought other shares down with it, including J. P. Morgan and Citigroup.  

 Microsoft led the decline in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index after Rick Sherlund, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs, said shares would be worth less if the No. 1 software maker were broken up.  

 ''Investors have no tolerance for any sort of bad news,'' said Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward D. Jones & Company, and when they hear warnings like that of Goldman, ''they sell across that entire sector.''  

 The Nasdaq composite index dropped 65.26 points, or 2 percent, to 3,205.35, erasing an earlier gain of 2.9 percent. The Dow dropped 211.43 points, or 2 percent, to 10,323.92. The S.& P. 500 sank 17.53 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,381.52. Six stocks fell for every five that rose on the New York Stock Exchange.  

 The Nasdaq surged early as investors bet that gains in the previous session signaled a turning point in the market after the index's five-day, 15 percent slide. That optimism faded as Microsoft slumped and gains in Intel and Cisco Systems evaporated.  

 Intel gave up a 4.2 percent advance and fell 2 3/16, to 115 3/16, while Cisco's 6 percent surge gave way to a decline of  5/8, to 54 1/2.  

 The Dow extended its decline after the Goldman Sachs profit warning.  

 ''That's arguably the best investment banking firm in the business,'' said Robert Bloom, chief investment officer at Friends, Ivory & Sime, which manages $3 billion. ''If they're not going to make the estimates, it tells you the best-managed and best-positioned companies are having trouble. What does it mean for everyone else?''  

 Goldman sank 7, to 73, after analysts cut their second-quarter earnings estimates for the company. Analysts at Merrill Lynch and Sanford Bernstein lowered their forecasts for the securities firm after the company indicated they might be too high.  

 Other financial firms declined with Goldman. J. P. Morgan lost 3 5/8, to 129, erasing a 1.2 percent gain. Lehman Brothers Holdings fell 5 3/16, to 72 1/2, after rising as high as 81. Merrill Lynch dropped 51 3/16, to 94 5/16, after touching a high of 102 5/8.  

 Citigroup dropped 21 3/16, to 58 9/16, after Diane Merdian began coverage of the stock at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter by cutting the rating to ''outperform'' from ''strong buy.'' Citigroup, the nation's biggest financial services company, had gained 28 percent from its low this year on Feb. 25 through Wednesday.  

 Microsoft sank 4 1/16, to 61 1/2. Mr. Sherlund issued his remarks after the judge in the government's antitrust suit against the company rejected Microsoft's request for six months to respond to the government's plan to break up the company.  

 Not all analysts agreed. Joe Farley, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, repeated his ''buy'' rating. ''We continue to believe that a breakup of Microsoft is arbitrary,'' Mr. Farley said in a note to clients. ''We believe the company should win on appeal.''  


                         --------------------
 


Treasury Prices Rise
 


(By Reuters) -- Bond prices surged yesterday as traders who had bet
that government securities would move lower scrambled to cover their
losses as stocks moved lower in late trading.
 


The 30-year bond rallied in the afternoon, rising 1 4/32, to 101
31/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price,
fell to 6.11 percent from 6.19 percent. The 10-year Treasury note,
narrowly lower at midmorning, gained 1 7/32, to 100 25/32. Its yield
fell to 6.39 percent from 6.46 percent.
 


Two-year notes rose 6/32, to 99 27/32. Their yield slid to 6.71
percent from 6.83 percent.
 


Treasuries sprang from negative territory after the Treasury
Department bought back $2 billion in 30-year bonds, its sixth debt
buyback this year. The Treasury Department received offers of $8.1
billion, and accepted $2 billion, paying $2.38 billion for the issues
redeemed, for a weighted average yield of 6.57 percent.
 


''Bonds have tended to sell off in the wake of buybacks. This time
they didn't and some players were maybe caught short,'' said William
Kirby, head of government bond trading at Prudential Securities in New
York.
 

 Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''Hot & Cold'' provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)  

Document nytf000020010809dw5q00txa




 Costco's Sales Slip Sends Investors Racing to Exit ---  Profit Warning  Unnerves Wall Street   

 By Ann Zimmerman   
Staff Reporter
850 words
26 May 2000
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
23
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 Can a small slip in sales at Costco Wholesale Corp. signal the end of the country's big buying binge?   

 The Washington state warehouse chain said that a slowdown in sales in late April and early May, coupled with expansion costs, led it to miss Wall Street's estimates for its quarterly net income by a penny a share. The company also warned that earnings for next quarter would be a penny or two below expectations.   

 The news led to a sell-off in Costco shares, which shed nearly a quarter of their value. Other retailers, such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp., also saw their stock decline.   

 "I'm glad it wasn't two pennies. We'd be underground," quipped Jim Sinegal, Costco's chief executive and president.   

 The reaction from investors was unusually harsh because Costco is one of the star performers among U.S. retailers, consistently posting double-digit sales and earnings growth from giant stores that offer a mix of bulk cereal boxes alongside Waterford crystal and $90 bottles of wine. Analysts look to the company, which is strongest on the West Coast, as an industry bellwether among a relatively high-income consumer group.   

 Costco still is posting double-digit earnings growth and said that double-digit earnings gains would continue into next year. But in this economy, any sign of even slight weakness is met with swift response.   

 "The good times look like they're slowing down," said Alex Kohl, a financial analyst with Goldman, Sachs & Co. "The question is: If Costco is falling out, who else might be? People are expecting so much, a little negative goes a long way."   

 The market selling was compounded by confusion over how the news was released. Analyst reports of the slowdown reached client shareholders before the company publicly released the information, and Costco shares traded down sharply in premarket activity Wednesday -- trading on off-exchange electronic systems -- before any public announcement. By the time the Nasdaq Stock Market opened at 9:30 a.m., Costco determined that a mix-up at Business Wire, the firm that handles press releases for thousands of companies, had delayed the release of its earnings report. Business Wire acknowledged it made an error.   

 Costco reported net income of $120.3 million for its fiscal third quarter ended May 7, or 26 cents a diluted share, compared with $105.9 million, or 23 cents in the year-earlier period. Analysts had expected 27 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial.   

 Costco said sales rose to $6.77 billion from $5.94 billion. Sales at stores open at least a year jumped 10% -- a healthy gain, but less than the 12% the company had expected. The slowdown came in the past several weeks and struck hardest in the Pacific Northwest. One reason may have been "the technology stock effect," which reflects more cautious consumer spending after technology stocks swooned in early April, said Daniel Barry, a retail analyst at Merrill Lynch & Co. Another factor may have been rainy and unseasonably cold weather that could keep consumers at home, he said.   

 Though the sales decline was a surprise, analysts were more concerned with the company's projected earnings. Costco said it expects to earn 43 to 44 cents a share in its fiscal fourth quarter, instead of the 45 cents analysts were expecting. The company also lowered its earnings-per-share growth rate for 2001 to between 11% and 13% from 15%. Further, Costco officials said they expect same store sales to grow 7%, instead of 7% to 9% -- an indication that the company sees a moderation in consumer spending.   

 In a conference call with analysts, Costco's chief financial officer, Richard Galanti, attributed the lowered earnings primarily to expenses associated with the company`s expansion plans, among other factors. Costco, which now operates 305 warehouses world-wide, added 23 stores in this fiscal year and plans to open 40 next year. More than half of the stores slated for fiscal 2001 will be in new markets, like the Southwest, which involves higher initial expenses. Mr. Galanti said the company might push back some of the openings to cut costs.   

 Costco's expenses also grew because the company began taking American Express cards, which charges merchants a processing fee. Though the company anticipated higher costs, the impact was compounded by the sales slowdown. Labor costs also increased.   

 Costco executives were shocked at Wall Street's reaction to its earnings report. The company's shares plunged $8.75, or 22%, to $31.875, in Nasdaq Stock Market trading Wednesday, and fell to $30.25 in late-morning trading Thursday.   

 "It hurts when something like this happens," said Mr. Sinegal, Costco's CEO. "We're driving the long-term health of our company and it's ludicrous to have that kind of falloff over a penny. The market is right on the edge, and every issue in every segment makes it overreact."   

Document awsj000020010803dw5q006ld


 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,479 words
25 May 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 PAUL KANGAS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: Financial stocks get clobbered late in the day, taking the Dow down with them. The blue chip Index falls over 200 points, the sell-off also KOs a rally on the NASDAQ. Good evening, I`m Paul Kangas in Miami. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. Microsoft (MSFT) stock was also slammed, falling more than 6 percent. We have the story behind the sell-off. Then, we`ll look at one company that`s taking customer service to new heights, as we continue our series, "whatever happened to customer service?" 

 KANGAS: The Dow Jones Industrial Average posted its biggest loss in over three weeks today, as nervous investors dumped financial stocks. The Index closed down 211 points, a 2 percent decline. The NASDAQ Composite also fell. The sell-off came after a Merrill Lynch (MER) analyst lowered second second-quarter estimates for Goldman Sachs (GS) to $1.36 a share. Bear Stearns` (BSC) Amy Butte says also lowered estimates on Goldman today. She says Goldman`s problems are shared by many of its peers. 

 AMY BUTTE, BROKERAGE ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Our recommendation is to underweight capital market stocks such as Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers (LEH), and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (MWD) with lower volumes, a slowing equity calendar, and a very uncertain fixed income market. We don`t think this is the place you want to weight a large percentage of your portfolio. 

 KANGAS: Analysts say worries about interest rates will continue to haunt financial stocks and the overall market until late June when the Fed meets. And that has many on Wall Street predicting choppy trading for stocks until then. 

 GHARIB: NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT has learned that the Justice Department will stick with its two-way break up proposal for Microsoft when it submits its final revision tomorrow. The judge had expressed some interest in a three-way break up plan. Meanwhile, Microsoft stock fell to a 52-week low today before recovering slightly to close at 61 1/2 but it was still down 6 percent for the day. Scott Gurvey looks at the trial`s impact on Microsoft investors. 

 SCOTT GURVEY, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Microsoft`s stock price is now half the record it set in December. It fell more than 6 percent today as investors confronted the near certainty of a court order to break up the company. While the order seems certain, its impact on Microsoft`s valuation is not. The most pessimistic views question the company`s ability to compete if broken into separate operating systems and application systems companies. 

 RICHARD SHERLUND, TECHNOLOGY ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Some of the individuals from the states and the DOJ and their advisors have suggested that this would be good for shareholders; the stock would be worth more. I think that`s ludicrous. The stock is already down a good 20 points, if not 30 points, because of the lawsuit. So to say that this is good for shareholders is just not accurate. 

 GURVEY: If there is a breakup, each piece will need to duplicate existing overhead such as administration, field offices, and communications infrastructure. That will cut into earnings. Microsoft watchers say they believe senior managers will want to remain with the applications company. That raises a question of leadership for the operating systems company. And the court may order major shareholders to divest their stock in one of the companies. If founders Gates, Ballmer, and Allen sell off their operating system company shares, it will further depress that stock. This gloomy picture of Microsoft is by no means universally held. In fact, the last few days have seen several buy and strong buy opinions emerge from industry analysts. They believe the double whammy of the government action and a product cycle related slowdown in earnings growth are more than reflected in the current stock price. They see Microsoft as cheap compared to others in the industry. 

 ANDREW ROSKILL, SOFTWARE ANALYST, WARBURG DILLON READ: If you are a long-term investor, it`s a great buying opportunity, but there could be some hiccups along the road. It you would prefer to wait for that uncertainty to clear, give it another three or four weeks. 

 GURVEY: Microsoft has a major event planned for next Thursday in Redmond, Washington, at which it will brief analysts and journalists on future strategies. The company says the imminent court order will not change its plans. Scott Gurvey, "NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT," New York. 

 KANGAS: The stock market opened on a mixed note today with the technology sector following through on yesterday`s encouraging 106-point run-up in the NASDAQ Index, but the Dow Jones Industrial Average, dragged down by Microsoft on those breakup concerns, headed lower. At 10:30 this morning, the Dow posted a 27-point loss while the NASDAQ Index was up 81 points. The blue chip sector continued to erode slowly throughout the rest of the morning and into early afternoon as money managers appeared to be rotating out of some of the big cap stocks, which could be hurt by a slowing economy. But the tech group held its early gains quite well. At 2:30 this afternoon, the Industrial Average was down 111 points, but the NASDAQ Index was still up 51 1/2 points. A major sell-off along a broad front, especially in the financial sector, was triggered, as you heard, when Merrill Lynch cut second-quarter earnings estimates on Goldman Sachs. The Dow Jones Industrial Average proceeded to plunge to a closing loss of 211.43 points, or 2 percent, putting it at 10,323.92. In today`s 293-point trading range, the Dow closed down 235 points from the best level of the session. The NASDAQ Composite also fell 2 percent, dropping 65 1/4 points to 3,205.35. In its 172-point trading range, the NASDAQ Composite settled 163 points below its best level of the day. 

 Big board volume simmered down well below a billion shares and well down from yesterday. Not quite a 2 to 1 down volume over up volume margin there. 

 The Dow Transports Index after gaining 74 yesterday, US Air`s big move, down 111.30 today. 

 The Utility Index fell 0.70. 

 And the Closing Tick decidedly bearish at -538. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 down 17 1/2. 

 A little over a 10 point drop in the 100. 

 MidCap 400 off nearly 3 1/2. 

 Bridge Futures Price Index lost nearly a point. 

 New York Stock Exchange Composite down 5 1/3. 

 A nearly 4 point drop in the Value Line. 

 Russell2000 Small Cap off just over 5 1/2 points. 

 And the broadly based Wilshire 5000 down 157.60. 

 After the market closed, the Federal Reserve reported in the week ending May 15th, the M-2 money supply fell-I should say rose--$13.9 billion. The bond market had its best day in weeks today partly on a report that April existing home sales fell 6.2 percent and partly because of news that the U.S. economy grew at 5.4 percent in the first quarter. That was about as expected, and there was a 7 1/2 percent rise in consumer spending that was actually below first estimates. Meanwhile, the Treasury`s $2 billion buy back and 30-year bonds psychologically helped to lift tax free and corporate issues but 1/4 to 1/2 point on average, and it also boosted the Treasury market. 

 5-year notes up 9/32. 

 The 10-year notes up 18/32 with a yield at 6.40 percent. 

 And the 30-year bond up 1 4/32 with a yield at 6.11. 

 And the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index up 11.16. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Susie. 

 GHARIB: Paul, the Federal Trade Commission made its case to Congress today for new powers to regulate privacy on the Internet. While there`s disagreement about how to enforce privacy on the Net, members of Congress and regulators agree on one point, navigating Web site privacy policies is a daunting task. Stephanie Woods reports. 

 STEPHANIE WOODS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Yahoo`s (YHO) privacy policy runs eight pages and 3,400 words. DoubleClick (DCLK) has a confusing set of instructions for people who don`t want their Information shared. That, says Senator John McCain isn`t what he had in mind to give people privacy protection. 

 SENATOR JOHN McCAIN, CHAIRMAN, COMMERCE COMMITTEE: I think this is a serious problem not only to, for a Web site to advertise that it will protect your privacy and then have this kind of mumbo jumbo. 

 WOODS: The Federal Trade Commission wants new legal authority to regulate privacy on the Internet. FTC Chairman Robert Pitofsky says industry self regulation isn`t enough. 

 ROBERT PITOFSKY, CHAIRMAN, FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION: The most effective self-regulatory programs are those that have a rule of law to back them up. 

 WOODS: While there is agreement that privacy should be protected, just how to do that is the subject of much debate. Many in the industry and even members of the FTC say new laws aren`t needed. One example, the FTC challenged GeoCities for selling customers` information to third parties when the posted policy said it would not. 

 ORSON SWINDLE, COMMISSIONER, FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION: If they are deceiving their customers, we have the authority to do something. 

 WOODS: Internet companies say developing a privacy policy is not as simple as it seems. 

 McCAIN: Just say this information will be private. 

 CHRISTINE VARNEY, ADVISOR, ONLINE PRIVACY ALLIANCE: When you run a Web site where you have content provider partners, where you have chat rooms that you link to that are run by other companies, where you have ask a doctor questions, where you e-mail a doctor who does not work for a company but works for somebody else, that information is, in fact, going to someone else. 

 WOODS: Getting new privacy laws put in place won`t be simple either. It`s unlikely Congress will pass anything this year and even if it did, the FTC will still take about a year to write any new Internet privacy rules. Stephanie Woods, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 KANGAS: Late today the Justice Department green lighted AT&T`s (T) $40 billion purchase of MediaOne (UMG), putting the long distance carrier one step closer to becoming the nation`s largest cable company. But the approval comes with a condition. AT&T must sell off MediaOne`s stake in the Road-Runner broadband Internet service provider. AT&T already owns a stake in the nation`s largest broadband ISP, Excite@home. The deal still requires FCC approval. The news was out after the closing bell. AT&T shares fell a point to close at 33 3/4. MediaOne stock was down 13/16 at 64 15/16. 

 KANGAS: A rough afternoon especially for the financial sector, the Dow Jones Industrial Average down 211.43 or two percent. For every 13 stocks higher, there were 16 lower. Only 37 new annual highs and 82 new lows. 

 AT&T (T) topped the active list on 15.3 million shares, down a 1 point. But of course you just heard the news about MediaOne. 

 Nortel Networks (NT) was up 1 point. 

 Lucent Technologies (LU) fell 1 1/4. 

 Citigroup dropped 2 1/2 points after Morgan Stanley downgraded the stock from "strong buy" to just "outperform." 

 Micron Technology (MU) moving up 4 5/16. It appears semiconductor demand is picking up. You recall yesterday Intel (INTC) said it`s expanding its production facilities in New Mexico. It`s going to come up with $2 billion. 

 General Electric (GE) moved up 3/16, counter trend. 

 And Nokia (NOK) down 1 1/2. 

 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) lost 3/4. 

 Compaq Computer (CPQ) a 1/2 point drop. 

 And then 10th in volume was Pfizer (PFE), which gained 1 7/16. 

 Adulant Technologies rising almost 5 points. After the market closed Standard & Poor`s announced Adulant will be added to the Standard & Poor`s 500 Index, replacing Naco. The date will be announced later. In after hours trading, Adulant was as high as $67 a share on that news. 

 AMR (AMR) down another 2 15/16 today. Salomon Smith Barney downgraded the stock from "outperform" to just "neutral." 

 ELF Aquitaine (ELF) up 9 1/8 points. The news here, the company plans to sell up to 1.3 million shares of Vintage Petroleum (VPI), and that`s according to an SEC filing. 

 Goldman Sachs (GS) itself plunging 6 7/8. Merrill Lynch thinks second quarter profits could fall short of the Street estimate, which is $1.47, down to the area of $1.30 to $1.36. 

 STMicroelectronics (STM) was up 1 7/16. J.P. Morgan Brokerage repeated at buy on that stock. 

 US Airways Group (U) giving back 4 points of yesterday`s 22 3/4 point jump when United Airlines parent UAL made a buyout bid at 60. 

 Schein Pharmaceutical (SHP) was shining beautifully today, up 3 5/16. The company`s going to be acquired by Watson Pharmaceutical (WPI) in a two stage deal. First, there`ll be a $19.50 all cash tender offer for about 75 percent of the stock and then the rest of it will be converted into $23 worth of Watson Pharmaceutical stock. 

 JLG Industries (JLG) up 1 5/8. Third quarter earnings $0.40 a share. That`s only a penny more than last year, but revenues were up 48 percent from last year and that $0.40 was $0.06 above the Wall Street estimate. 

 Teledyne (TDY) up 1 3/8. The company says it`s in a multi-year pact to provide Hughes Network Systems with power amplifiers. 

 Watson Pharmaceuticals (WPI) the big loser, plunging 7 3/16 on that big purchase of Schein Pharmaceutical. A little earnings dilution fear there, apparently. 

 Allstate (ALL) down 3 3/16. The stock was up 1 1/4 yesterday on vague takeover rumors but nothing`s happened and, of course, it is in the financial sector, which got clobbered today. 

 Polo Ralph Lauren (RL) was down 1 1/16. The story here, Merrill Lynch downgraded it from "accumulate" to just a "near term neutral" rating. 

 NASDAQ trading down 65 1/4 points. Trading volume down 521 million shares from yesterday. For every 17 stocks higher, 22 lower. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) dropping 5/8. 

 Then Intel (INTC) off 2 3/16. 

 Microsoft (MSFT), as you heard, at a new 52 week low, down 4 1/16. 

 Oracle (ORCL) was up 2 3/16. 

 QUALCOMM (QCOM) plunging 7 3/4 even though the House voted to get China in the WTO. But it`s not having much of an impact on QUALCOMM. 

 Sun Micro (SUNW) down 3 1/2. 

 Applied Materials (AMAT) off a 1 3/4 points. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) off 4 1/2. 

 Rambus (RMBS) tumbled 14 5/8. 

 And then PMC Sierra (PMCS) was down 1 5/16. 

 Sonus Networks (SONS), a hot new issue which was, indeed, hot today. The network equipment provider came at a price of $23 a share, five million shares offered. Opened at 33, the high 51 5/8, closed right near the high. 

 Baan Company (BAANF), this is a Dutch software firm, boosted by takeover rumors, but only an oracle could figure out who the suitor is. Some say it is Oracle but others say nah, no way. 

 THQ, Inc. (THQI) was down 5 11/16. Bank of America downgraded the stock from "strong buy" to just "market perform" and cut fiscal 2000 and 2001 earnings estimates after the company issued a profit warning. 

 The American Exchange Index down 4.40. 

 Clearworks.net (CLW) down, I mean up 1 5/16. This is the first day of trading for this stock on the American Exchange. It came over from the NASDAQ bulletin board, and a rather nice debut. 

 Titan Pharmaceuticals (TTP) up 2 1/4. Last Tuesday, Alex Brown issued a "strong buy" and the stock has been doing very well ever since. 

 And finally, the Index Shares, as you might imagine, all on the down side, especially the NASDAQ Qs (QQQ), down 2. 

 And the Depositary Receipts (SPY) a little worse than that. 

 That`s our Wall Street Wrap Up. Susie? 

 GHARIB: It was a rough day. And, Paul, as you said it was also a bumpy day for airline stocks. But the airlines are also a favorite target of customer complaints whether it`s about lost bags or late arrivals. As we continue our series, Whatever Happened To Customer Service? Diane Eastabrook looks at how one airline turned its fortunes around by putting passengers first. 

 DIANE EASTABROOK, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Six years ago Continental (CAL) looked like an airline going nowhere. It was last on nearly every customer satisfaction survey. It was on the verge of its third bankruptcy in a decade and it had just hired its 10th CEO in about as many years. 

 GORDON BETHUNE, CHAIRMAN & CEO, CONTINENTAL AIRLINES: BETHUNE: I knew I was brain damaged. I had been convinced to come and help straighten the place out, kind of like the copilot, you know, that was my job, president and chief operating officer. The guy didn`t tell me both engines had quit, though, you know and we`re not going to save this ship. 

 EASTABROOK: But Bethune figured Continental could be saved if more people started flying the airline again, so customer service became the airline`s focus. First, Continental eliminated routes customers didn`t want to fly and added those they did. It renovated terminals and gave jets new paint jobs. It served better food and it improved its on time and lost baggage performance. Within a year, passenger loads were up, customer satisfaction was up and profits were up too. 

 BETHUNE: How do you measure a good airline? Well, I`m a customer, you`re a customer and that`s kind of the, you`d like a clean airplane. You`d like it to be on time. You`d like courteous service. Why don`t we just do that? 

 EASTABROOK: But Bethune is the first to admit Continental`s customer service initiatives would never have succeeded if the airline`s 51,000 employees had not been on board to back them up. Continental motivated employees by giving them bonuses based on airline performance ratings issued by the Department of Transportation. Bethune also began motivating employees personally by visiting them on the job and encouraging new hires at Continental. Bethune: You use your judgment. Do what`s good for the customer and good for Continental, not just one or the other. 

 EASTABROOK: Some industry watchers say Continental should serve as a model to its competitors. They say airlines often lose focus on customer service when they begin to dominant a market. One industry expert points out for airlines, customer service is second only to safety in importance. 

 AARON GELLMAN, DIRECTOR, TRANSPORTATION CENTER NORTHWESTERN: One of the things that artistic management does is tell the people you`ve got to act as though we had competition there, I mean, because if we don`t act as though we`ve got competition there, A, we`re going to get it, and B, it may jeopardize the whole airline`s future. 

 EASTABROOK: Despite five years of solid profits and numerous customer satisfaction awards, Continental continues to look for ways to improve service, from e-ticket terminals that provide faster check-in to priority tags that deliver bags first to frequent fliers. Bethune believes as long as his employees keep providing an airline customers want to fly, Continental`s fortunes will keep climbing, too. Diane Eastabrook, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Houston. 

 KANGAS: Tomorrow, our Friday market monitor guest is Douglas Jimerson, President of National Investment Advisers. 

 GHARIB: Viacom (VIA) has something new on its shopping list, its own stock. It`s looking to buy back as much as $1 billion of its outstanding stock. Just a few weeks ago, Viacom completed its purchase of CBS TV and radio networks. Viacom also owns MTV, VH1, Paramount Studios and the Blockbuster video chain. Its stock rose 9/16 today to 55 5/8. 

 KANGAS: A mouth watering IPO is in the works. California Pizza Kitchen wants to take its place alongside the tech stocks on the NASDAQ. It`s hoping to raise $70 million going public. The 15-year-old old restaurant chain has 100 eateries in the United States and overseas. It owns three quarters and licenses or franchises the rest. Details of the IPO, such as the number of shares and the price, have yet to be set. 

 GHARIB: More and more women are surfing the Web. They are fastest growing segment on the Net and Women.com (WOMN) wants to attract those eyeballs. The Chairwoman and CEO of this new media network is Marleen McDaniel. She came to the company in 1994, two years after it was founded as an Internet dial up service. In 1995, it was launched as Women.com. It gets its revenue from advertising, e-commerce and producing Web sites for its partners. Women.com went public seven months ago and though it`s not making money the first quarter of this year its revenue, page view traffic, reach and membership were all up. But like many tech stocks lately, its stock has been down. In tonight`s prime movers segment, Donald van de Mark of Myprimetime.com asks McDaniel how she deals with that. 

 MARLEEN McDANIEL, CHAIR & CEO, WOMEN.COM NETWORKS: I think the stock market is one set of dynamics and business is yet a different set of dynamics. So what it does is it disables companies from easily raising more money because, you know, that is too low. We actually wouldn`t sell more stock at that kind of price. So it`s not a good thing but fundamentally we are already well capitalized and it doesn`t really affect us day to day. 

 DONALD VAN DE MARK, MYPRIMETIME.COM: Isn`t it, in a way, a good thing for you since potential competitors can`t get the capital to compete with you? 

 McDANIEL: I think it will slow down our industry in general and that is a good thing, because this industry was in such a hyper growth mode that it was growing out of control and lots of little companies that have been started will not be to get the funds that they need to continue. It`s going to force consolidation and it will force the leaders to emerge. And we intend to be one of those leaders. 

 VAN DE MARK: To be a leader one might argue that you have to be profitable. Give us an idea of where you see profitability coming for Women.com. 

 McDANIEL: We have projected profitability for next year and we have been exceeding our revenues and holding our costs. So we actually could be able to bring that in even closer, which is a strategy we`re looking at now. But I really think that we have a business model that we`re very satisfied with and so we really don`t intend to cut back radically on our spending either. 

 VAN DE MARK: It`s interesting that Women.com is, in a way, a collection of old media brands from the Hearst Corporation, "Redbook," "Cosmo." In a way it`s almost like old media in a sneak attack on the online networks. Is that how you see it? 

 McDANIEL: We wanted to be a network and so what we`ve done is bring together a lot of different brands that reach different audiences into our network and I am very proud of it because it enables us to reach different kinds of woman that are at different life stages with different interests, you know? So somebody who reads a "Cosmopolitan" magazine might be very, very different from someone who`s reading a Harlequin novel, which is also a part of our Web site. So we are able to segment our audience into many, many niches and it`s really interesting and it`s a lot of fun. 

 KANGAS: Recapping today`s market action, the Dow lost 211 points and the NASDAQ Index fell 65 points. Please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: NBR. 

 GHARIB: And finally, adding dot.com to a name used to be considered a sure way to riches, at least that`s what one town in Oregon thought. Halfway, Oregon, voted earlier this year to temporarily change its name to Half.com. The town hoped to attract new businesses, jobs and tourists, but apparently it just didn`t pay off. The city has not seen any major increases in tourism or job growth and Paul, some residents think that the whole idea was half baked. 

 KANGAS: Well, the way the dot.com stocks are doing if they don`t change back pretty soon it will be a ghost town. 

 GHARIB: Or, yeah. You know, they call those dot.coms, somebody was saying, a dot.bomb. 

 KANGAS: Yeah. Whatever. 

 GHARIB: So they might be facing that- 

 KANGAS: Change it back. 

 GHARIB: Go back to Halfway, Oregon, Oregon. That`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Thursday, May 25th. I`m Susie Gharib. Goodnight, everyone. And goodnight to you, Paul. 

 KANGAS: Goodnight, Susie. I`m Paul Kangas wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post-broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. 

 The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. 

 Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. 

 c2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dw5p0002w




 Merrill downgrades S'pore electronic contractors. 

465 words
24 May 2000
07:49
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

     SINGAPORE, May 24 (Reuters) - Merrill Lynch on Wednesday 

 downgraded Singapore's electronic contract manufacturers to 

 neutral from accumulate in the intermediate-term due to 

 investment risk on Nasdaq's volatility and component shortages. 

     In its latest research note, Merrill suggested however, a 

 switch to Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing and 

 Gul Technology as beneficiaries of component shortage 

 and tight supply of high-end printed circuit boards. 

     "We now see market expectations being adjusted downward 

 following the profit warning issued by NatSteel Electronics 

  (NEL) late last week," it said. 

  Merrill said it believed sector valuations would continue to 

 be de-rated and had lowered its earnings forecasts for contract 

 manufacturers. 

     "Although some companies may still deliver over 20 percent 

 earnings growth, the inflated 1999 and first quarter 2000 

 valuations of 30-40 times earnings are unlikely to be 

 sustained." 

     Merrill said it believed valuations would have to retreat 

 to their historical low range of 20 times forward earnings 

 before the sector became attractive to investors again. 


    It said JIT Holdings	     was most vulnerable because



of its significant exposure to cellular phones.



    Merrill lowered its JIT earnings forecasts for 1999 and



2000 by 11 percent and 14 percent, respectively.



    It cut its intermediate ratings for JIT, Venture



Manufacturing , Omni Industries to neutral



from accumulate, putting their 12-month price targets at



S$2.70, S$16.20 and S$2.60, respectively.



But Merrill kept its long-term buy ratings for them as



their long-term fundamentals remained attractive, given the



outsourcing trend that continued unabated.



Venture's earnings forecasts were lowered by seven percent



for 2000 and nine percent for 2001. Omni's forecasts were



trimmed by three and four percent, respectively.



Merrill said tight supply in passive components like



tantalum capacitors, ceramic capacitors, SAW filters and



resistors would probably continue until the first quarter of



2001.



    For NEL, Merrill said: "We see NEL value remerging already



as it has suffered the largest share price drop."



    NEL shares had lost almost half of its value in a week



after issuing a profit warning due to higher interest expense



and lower gross margins following component shortages.



    "We reiterate our buy intermediate- and long-term buy



ratings for NEL and Chartered Semiconductor," Merrill said.



    "For Gul Technology, we have raised our intermediate-term



recommendation from accumulate to buy. Our long-term



recommendation remains accumulate," it added.



    The following is their share performance by midday break:



			0430 GMT  change (%)
    NEL	     S$ 4.78     10.65
    Venture	 S$15.00	6.25
    JIT	     S$ 2.68	4.63
    Omni	    S$ 2.43	6.54
    Chartered     S$11.70	5.65
    Gul	     S$ 0.965     4.46



    ((Singapore Newsroom +65 870 3843, Fax +65 776 8112



singapore.newsroom@reuters.com)).



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010820dw5o04x9c




 US retailers hit by Costco warning, inflation fear. 

452 words
24 May 2000
19:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, May 24 (Reuters) - Shares of many U.S. retailers fell on Wednesday as investor worries about a slowdown in consumer spending heightened after warehouse club retailer Costco Wholesale Corp. issued a profit warning, analysts said. 

 "It started with Costco," said Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard's retail trend report. "I think Costco is beginning to put a little bit of a scare into investors with respect to consumer spending. They are the distributor of shaky news." 

 Earlier, Issaquah, Washington-based Costco posted third quarter results that missed Wall Street estimates and it cut its expectations for the fourth quarter, sending the stock down by more than one-third. In afternoon trade on Nasdaq, Costco shares were down 10-1/2 at 30-1/8. 

 No retailer seemed immune from the weakness on Wednesday, as a wide variety of retailers, ranging from home electronics to luxury goods sellers, saw shares fall. The Standard & Poor's retail index was off about 6 percent at 841.14 in afternoon trade 

 "I think the market in general is looking for a reason to sell, not to buy," said Dean Ramos, an analyst for George K. Baum. "Overall, the worry has been that the rate hikes do cause some slowdown on the (consumer) spending side." 

 Earlier this week, Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Roger Ferguson said the United States faced a "very real" threat of inflation. The Federal Reserve has raised interest rates six times since last June in an effort to contain rising prices. 

 Shares of home improvement giant Home Depot Inc. , a retailer typically seen as sensitive to interest rate hikes, fell 3-1/2, or 7 percent, to 45-3/16 in afternoon trade. Lowes Companies , which sells building supplies and home decor items, were off 3 at 45-5/16 in afternoon trade on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Shares of No. 1 retailer Wal-Mart Stores Inc. also fell, trading off 2-11/16 to 54-1/2. Wal-Mart operates Sam's Club discount warehouse stores. 

 Ramos said home electronics retailers, whose valuations tend to be higher than traditional retailers because of a dependence on technology, also took a hit due to inflation worries. 

 Shares of Best Buy Co. Inc. were off 6-7/8 at 66-1/8, while Circuit City Stores Inc. shares were off 4-9/16 at 53-1/2, both on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Luxury goods retailer Tiffany & Co. Inc. was off 5-7/8 at 55-5/8 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 ((Anna Driver-Chicago Equities News at 312-408-8787, chicago.equities.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010820dw5o04rsh




 Novell Reports 2nd-Quarter Net Income Fell 20% As Sales Declined 4.2% 

675 words
23 May 2000
21:40
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Networking-software developer Novell Inc. reported fiscal second-quarter net income fell 20% as sales weakened by 4.2%. The results were in line with a warning the company issued earlier this month. 

 Provo, Utah-based Novell (NOVL) also said it named a new chief technology officer and chief information officer and announced plans to realign operations into four business groups. 

 For the quarter ended April 30, Novell said net income came to $31 million, or nine cents a diluted share, compared with $38.7 million, or 11 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Sales fell to $302.3 million from $315.7 million a year earlier. 

 The latest results included a one-time royalty from Caldera Inc. of $35 million, or seven cents a share. Excluding that item, the company would have posted earnings of two cents a share. The mean estimate of six analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for core earnings of one cent a share. 

 Novell said revenue was less than anticipated because of a decline in traditional packaged software sales to resellers, a drop off it called "an unintended consequence" of the company's "focus on new products in new markets." 

 Novell said training and launch activities for Microsoft Corp.'s (MSFT) Windows 2000 operating system and Novell's new Linux offerings consumed "significant" reseller attention during the quarter, but added that it is "experiencing no real market loss" to Windows 2000. 

 The software maker said May 2 that it expected to report less-than-expected revenue and earnings for the second quarter because of weak sales triggered by competition from Windows 2000. At that time, Novell said it expected revenue of about $300 million and earnings of about eight cents a share. Before the warning, the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of 16 cents a share. 

 Revenue from sales of NetWare server software, the principal component of reseller sales, was down 32% from the year-earlier period to $115 million. Product revenue from older predirectory products declined to $17 million. 

 Novell's Net services site-license business grew to $193 million in the second quarter, up 7% from the year-earlier period, and up 10% from the first quarter. 

 Separately, Novell announced it will realign operations into four business groups to focus on new market opportunities. The company said the four groups - Net Management, Net Directory, Net Content and Novell Customer Services - each will have its own strategic focus and marketing strategy, including target markets and channels. 

 In addition, the company named Dave Shirk chief technology officer. Shirk served most recently as Novell's senior vice president, product management. 

 Novell also named Ken Anderson chief information officer. Anderson was vice president of global infrastructure for the company's information systems department. 

 Earlier this year, Novell used cost cutting to meet Wall Street's first-quarter profit target but the company's sales fell short of expectations. The second-quarter warning May 2 suggested Novell has ecountered a bigger road bump in its turnaround effort. Novell shares plunged after that warning. 

 Some analysts say sales slowed as Novell customers evaluated the Windows 2000 operating system from Microsoft. Windows 2000 is the start of a major effort by Microsoft to sell products that perform many network-administration tasks that have been Novell's strong suit. Novell confirmed those fears by saying earlier this month it "experienced weak sales across its global channel as the introduction of Windows 2000 and growing market interest in the Linux operating system created uncertainty and delayed sales." 

 Novell has been developing products for other markets besides the desktop computer arena, where it is most vulnerable to inroads from Windows. One example is in using Novell software to power a new class of products to speed up Internet traffic. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw5n01cea




 Ryerson Tull at new low after earnings forecast. 

289 words
22 May 2000
16:21
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, May 22 (Reuters) - Shares of metals processor Ryerson Tull Inc. fell to a fresh 52-week low on Monday after the company said a significant slowdown in sales would hit its second quarter earnings. 

 The company said its business softened substantially in April and the first half of May, and it expected to be only "slightly profitable" in the second quarter at current sales levels. 

 Shares of Ryerson Tull were off 3-5/16 to 10-7/16 in morning trade on the New York Stock Exchange after a delayed opening. The previous 52-week low was 11-7/8. 

 Analysts had expected Ryerson Tull to post second-quarter earnings of 49 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks such data. 

 In the year-ago second quarter, the company reported operating income of 41 cents a diluted share. 

 One Wall Street analyst said the profit warning was unexpected. 

 "I don't think anybody was anticipating this," David MacGregor, analyst with Midwest Research, said. "It's starting to look like OEM (original equipment manufacturer) inventories are backing up for Tull, and that means shipments will probably be down 4-5 percent from the first quarter." 

 MacGregor said either demand would pick up or Ryerson Tull would have to cut overhead costs to adjust to slower demand. 

 The company said the recent weakness in sales was largely due to its customers' need to adjust production schedules and inventory to more appropriate levels. 

 Ryerson Tull has annual revenues of $2.8 billion and has 70 facilities in the United States and Canada. 

 ((-Chicago Equities News at 312-408-8787, chicago.equities.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5m0009x




 Shares of Coca-Cola Enterprises hit new lows. 

447 words
22 May 2000
18:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 ATLANTA, May 22 (Reuters) - Shares of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. , the world's largest bottler of Coca-Cola soft drinks, fell to fresh 52-week lows on Monday as fallout from a profit warning last week continued to cloud the bottler's future. 

 Atlanta-based Coca-Cola Enterprises, about 40-percent owned by Coca-Cola Co. , dipped 5/16 to 14-5/16 a share on the New York Stock Exchange. The bottler, which had traded as high as 37-8/16 during the past year, has lost about 35 percent of its market value in the last week. 

 Coca-Cola Co. gained 1/16 to 50-1/8 on the NYSE. 

 The sell-off stemmed from Coca-Cola Enterprises' surprise announcement last Monday that earnings this year would fall well below estimates due mainly to currency-induced weakness in the British market. 

 The company said it expected to earn 50 cents a share in 2000 before one-time items, but including the impact of currency fluctuations, compared to the 71 cents that had been expected by analysts. 

 "They cut their outlook for earnings by 30 percent and the stock went down about 30 percent. It (the sell-off) is entirely appropriate," said Caroline Levy, analyst with UBS Warburg in New York. 

 When asked how low the stock might fall, Levy said it would depend upon how quickly Coca-Cola Enterprises recovered in the United Kingdom and whether the company could squelch concerns about sluggish volume growth in North America. 

 Levy, who has placed a hold rating with a price target of $17.50 a share on the stock, also said Coca-Cola Enterprises must deal with "leadership issues," which have surfaced since the retirement last year of chief executive officer and president Henry Schimberg. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises named its chairman, Summerfield Johnston, interim chief executive until it could choose a permanent successor for Schimberg later this year. 

 John Alm, the bottler's president and chief operating officer, is considered the most likely candidate for the job. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises must also contend with a continuing probe by European anti-trust regulators, who raided the bottler's offices in London and Brussels last week. European officials are investigating whether Coca-Cola Enterprises may have breached competition laws. 

 Some analysts have maintained buy ratings on the bottler despite the recent problems. Martin Romm, analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston, said the sell-off of Coca-Cola Enterprises had been excessive, adding that investors should consider taking advantage of a buying opportunity. ((Paul Simao, Reuters Atlanta Bureau (404) 327-5787 or email paul.simao@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010820dw5m0510p




 After  Profit Warning , J.D. Edwards To  Cut  800 Jobs In Restructuring 

536 words
22 May 2000
21:35
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 DENVER -(Dow Jones)- J.D. Edwards & Co., which warned earlier this month that it will post a surprise loss for its fiscal second-quarter, said it plans to cut 800 jobs world-wide and reduce office space and overhead costs as part of a restructuring program. 

 The business software maker said its cost structure is out of line with its revenue. As part of the restructuring, the company said it will move to computer-based training for its customers and Internet-based supply procurement. 

 The company, which employs about 5,400 people, said that about 240 of the 800 positions slated for elimination are in the Denver area and a large number of those would be from training centers. Some centers will be closed. 

 Chief Financial Officer Rick Allen said that Edwards will take a restructuring charge in the fiscal third quarter ending July 31, but he declined to say how big that charge will be. He said the nature of the charge and the extent of the savings from the restructuring will be announced when the company reports third-quarter results. 

 Chief Operating Officer Dave Girard said that revenue growth in Germany and Japan hasn't been in line with the growth of expenses there and the company will "trim back significantly" in those countries. 

 Edwards (JDEC) on May 4 said that it would post an operating loss of $20 million to $25 million on revenue of $225 million to $235 million, jolting analysts who had expected the company to report a profit. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had been for earnings of two cents a share. Analysts now look for a loss of 10 cents a share for the quarter ended April 30. In the year-earlier quarter, the company posted a loss of $10.4 million, or 10 cents a share, on revenue of $231.6 million. The company is slated to report results Wednesday. 

 Edwards blamed higher-than-expected costs for marketing and sales and lower profit margins from sales of software made by other companies, including Ariba Inc. (ARBA) and Siebel Systems Inc. (SEBL). Edwards doesn't make as much money off these resales as it would from its own software. 

 During the quarter, the company saw the resignation of its chief executive officer and president, Doug Massingill, and replaced him with chairman C. Edward McVaney. Analysts viewed that move as a sign that a change in focus Massingill was seeking for the software company hadn't been successful. In recent months, Edwards and other so-called enterprise resource planning, or ERP, firms have worked to repackage themselves as Internet-solutions outfits devoted to getting companies online. Edwards saw its sales growth flatten in last year's ERP slowdown, but Massingill elected to sacrifice profits rather than slash payroll. 

 Monday, McVaney called the job cuts "the culmination of a lot of soul-searching, and a careful assessment of our market position," adding that the move "was a very tough but very necessary decision." 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dw5m01c0q


 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,624 words
22 May 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 PAUL KANGAS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: Investors ride a roller- coaster of worry, selling stocks through midday, then jumping back in. The Dow trims its closing loss to 84 points, and the NASDAQ manages a mega-turnaround, closing down just 26 points. Good evening. I`m Paul Kangas in Miami. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. Uncle Sam wants to protect you on the Internet. Government regulators are calling for new rules on the nation`s Web sites. We have a report. Then, a look at how the nation`s online retailers are doing. A new survey shows some of them may not make through the holidays this year. 

 GHARIB: Good evening, everyone. Another volatile nervous day on Wall Street, but the closing numbers don`t tell how badly stocks got hammered today. Thanks to a late afternoon rally, the Dow lost only 84 points, and the NASDAQ just 26. What`s going on? Here`s what Scott Gurvey found out. 

 SCOTT GURVEY, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORESPONDENT: Judging from today`s wild ride, there is a lot of confusion on Wall Street. At one point today, the NASDAQ was down 6.7 percent. It ended the day down just 0.7 percent. Investors can hardly be blamed for their mood swings. They are receiving a great deal of conflicting advice. Some experts say interest rate worries and real fundamental issues will keep the market heading down. They insist technology high-flyers will continue to be beaten back until they reach reasonable valuations. 

 RICHARD BERNSTEIN, MARKET STRATEGIST, MERRILL LYNCH: In technology, first everybody said it was a valuation issue. Now everybody`s saying it`s the Fed. Nobody wants to say there`s actually some problem with the fundamentals, and I think when people begin to admit that some of the tech companies really do have problems with their fundamentals, then we`ll know the things almost over, but we`re clearly not there yet. 

 GURVEY: Many of those fundamental problems have to do with changes in accounting standards, which will in particular impact companies valued more on sales than on profits. Other problems concern the use of options and stock to attract employees and partners. Companies may have to come up with cash in the future, but these concerns are by no means universal. Many analysts insist that low volume is exaggerating bad news, and that technology is still king, and the dips are only opportunities to buy quality issues. 

 ART HOGAN, CHIEF MARKET ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: There`s a lot of terrific companies trading at bargain prices now. We`ve done a lot of damage to names like Cisco (CSCO) and Microsoft (MSFT) and Yahoo! (YHOO) and America Online (AOL), not just over the last two-week period, and not just today, but over the last three months, and I think that down the road there`s going to be great long- term investments, and we`re getting some very low entry prices. GURVEY: Which view is correct? There is no consensus. There is pretty good agreement on one point: this volatility continues at least until the end of June, when the Fed meets next. Scott Gurvey, "NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT," New York. 

 KANGAS: Wall Street`s blue chips staged a little technical rally on the opening this morning, after last Friday`s 150-point tumble in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, but after rising only 35 points at the outset, the Dow reversed course, largely because of an early 9-point loss in General Motors (GM) stock when its exchange offer for GM Hughes (GMH) stock was heavily oversubscribed. By 10:30 a.m., the Dow fell to a 130-point loss, 50 points of which was due to weakness in GM, and the NASDAQ Index, which plummeted 148 points last Friday, fell another 182 points to a new low for the year. The growing belief that higher interest rates would reduce the sales of high-tech companies kept that market sector moving lower for the rest of the morning, and the blue chips followed suit, as the Industrial Average posted a 240-point loss at noontime, when the NASDAQ Index was down 175 points. The high-tech bashing continued until mid-afternoon, when the NASDAQ Index was down 218 points. But that`s when aggressive buyers finally appeared. The ensuing rally also included the blue-chip Dow, which managed to slashed its closing loss to 84.30 points, putting it at 10,542.55. In today`s 295-point trading range, the Industrial Average closed up 173 points from its worst level of the session. The NASDAQ Composite cut its loss to a mere 26.19, at 3,364.21. In its 218-point trading range, the Composite settled 192 points above its worst of the day. That was a comeback. 

 Big board volume 871.4 million shares, about 12 million more than Friday. About a 5 to 4 ratio of down volume over up volume however, pretty low volume day really. 

 Transports down nearly 22 points. 

 Utility Index managed to gain 3.09. 

 And the Closing Tick just slightly bullish at +243. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 down nearly 6 1/4. 

 Almost a 5 point drop in the 100. 

 The MidCap 400 was down nearly 6 1/2 points. 

 And the Bridge Futures Price Index moved up 0.48. 

 New York Stock Exchange Composite down 4 2/3. 

 A 2 2/3 drop in the Value Line Index. 

 Russell2000 Small Cap off just over 8 points. 

 And the broadly based Wilshire 5000 had a modest loss of 87.40. 

 The bond market rallied nicely across the board this morning, with the help of plenty of flight-to-safety buying triggered by the continuing retreat in stock prices. The upturn ran into resistance by midday, however, after Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Roger Ferguson said the nation faces a very real threat of inflation, and the central bank hopes to prevent it from becoming worse. That, and the late rally in stocks, trimmed the closing gains in tax-free and corporates to about 1/4 point on average, and that`s about what happened to the Treasury market, too. 

 The 5-year notes managed to close up 4/32. 

 The 10-years up 14/32 with a yield at 6.44 percent. 

 And the 30-year bond up 8/32 with a yield at 6.19 percent. 

 Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index gained nearly 7 3/4 points. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Susie? 

 GHARIB: Paul, government regulators called on Congress today to protect consumer privacy online. The Federal Trade Commission says a lack of privacy standards is endangering consumer confidence online. But as Stephanie Woods reports, those recommendations are stirring up debate. 

 STEPHANIE WOODS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Almost all the popular Web sites now have privacy policies. But the FTC says very few adequately protect consumer privacy. After taking a wait and see approach, the FTC is now asking Congress for new laws to regulate the online industry. The FTC says the proposed legislation would give it the means to implement and enforce minimum standards for the collecting personal data online. Privacy groups say government oversight is a step in the right direction. 

 MARK ROTENBERG, ELECTRONIC PRIVACY INFORMATION CENTER: There`s a lot of privacy policies that really aren`t very good because they tell customers, you know, give us your information and we`ll use it for whatever we wish. And you look at that privacy policy and you think boy, that`s more like a warning label. That doesn`t help me very much. The FTC wants to raise the bar a bit. 

 WOODS: The FTC issued its report after a 3-2 vote, with one dissenting commissioner saying the proposal defies logic. Some in the industry agree, saying the FTC doesn`t need new laws to enforce privacy protection. Christine Varney advises an industry coalition group that calls the move over broad and impractical. 

 CHRISTINE VARNEY, ADVISOR, ONLINE PRIVACY ALLIANCE: The FTC seems to be not cognizant of the tremendous progress that has been made already on the legislative front when it comes to children`s data, financial data, medical and health data and seems to not be terribly cognizant of the tremendous progress that industry and consumers have made when it comes to non- sensitive data. 

 WOODS: The FTC will defend its proposals to Congress later this week. But without broad support from the high tech industry, any new privacy protection laws will be tough to pass. Stephanie Woods, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 KANGAS: Another online retailer goes offline for good. Toysmart.com is shutting down. Disney is the majority owner of Toysmart and said today the competition among Web-based toy retailers is just too great. Meanwhile, many Internet retailers still smarting from last year`s troubled holiday season are getting stung by a new report. A survey finds a number of consumers do not trust pure play e-tailers. Dianne Eastabrook has the details. 

 DIANE EASTABROOK, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: It`s news the nation`s e-tailers don`t want to hear. A new survey showed half of the Internet users polled are uncomfortable buying from pure play Web companies. But many of those same consumers say they would feel comfortable buying from a traditional retailer`s online site. The consumers believe pure play e-tailers fall short of their clicks and mortar competitors when it comes to returns, security and quality. Anderson Consulting did the study. 

 MARY TOLAN, MANAGING PARTNER, ANDERSEN CONSULTING: And so as we`re really getting into this how do we execute well phase, the strength of companies that have built all that infrastructure is beginning to shine, you know, vis-a-vis the new companies. 

 EASTABROOK: Some pure play Internet retailers disappointed consumers last December because the companies had trouble tracking orders and handling returns. Many of those companies outsource customer service and fulfillment. Art.com, an Internet art retailer, has its own customer call center and fulfillment facility. The company not only sells prints and posters, but mounts, frames and ships them, too. While Art.com says it has had few fulfillment problems, it fears successful e-tailers like itself could suffer from a backlash caused by poor performing ones. That`s why in recent months the company beefed up its customer service department and adopted stricter quality control standards. 

 MICHAEL KAHN, VICE PRESIDENT, ART.COM: So I think we`ve raised the bar in terms of our own performance, knowing at the end of the day that in a virtual e-tail world, the finished product and service surrounding that will determine how satisfied your customers are and ultimately what their repeat purchase rate will be. 

 EASTABROOK: Andersen says it`s now using the survey results to prepare its e-tailing clients for the next holiday shopping season. But the consulting firm admits those Internet retailers that disappoint this holiday shopping season probably won`t be around for another. Diane Eastabrook, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Lake Forest, Illinois. 

 GHARIB: A key Congressional vote on the China trade bill is just two days away and ahead of that there are new concerns about how the deal will be enforced. Darren Gersh reports. 

 DARREN GERSH, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Run a red light in Washington, D.C. and a camera automatically snaps a picture of your license plate and you get the ticket in the mail. But experts says trade laws aren`t that simple. Economist Robert Dunn compares trade agreements to the tax code-complicated and subject to differing interpretations. 

 ROBERT DUNN, ECONOMICS PROFESSOR, GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY: There are all kinds of ways that the Japanese and the Europeans and others have found ways to wiggle around the rules. The Chinese may be a little worse, but they`re in good company. 

 GHARIB: When it comes to China, size alone is an enforcement issue. Not only is the Chinese economy huge, but experts say Beijing`s agreement to enter the World Trade Organization is one of the most complicated ever, covering trade in everything from satellite earth stations to fresh dogfish and toilet paper. The Clinton administration is promising to put in place a special rapid reaction trade enforcement team on China and under WTO the administration says it will be easier to impose sanctions. 

 ROBERT LARUSSA, COMMERCE UNDERSECRETARY FOR INTERNATIONAL TRADE: It`s like having a court who basically says do this because it`s a violation of your commitments. If they don`t live up to if they don`t live up to the commitments, there is something we can do about it, something concrete we can do about it, much more than we have now. It`s very good for U.S. businesses and workers. 

 GHARIB: Critics charge China hasn`t honored any trade agreements it has made and even if Beijing wants to enforce trade rules, some worry powerful provincial governments may stall action. 

 ALAN TONELSON, RESEARCH FELLOW, U.S. BUSINESS & INDUSTRY COUNCIL: There`s simply no such thing as rule of law in China. So since they don`t respect the idea of the rule of law within their own political system, it`s very difficult to believe that they will respect the rule of law applied globally. 

 GHARIB: The United States now has more than 40 cases charging China with dumping products in our markets. When China joins the WTO it`s likely the United States will be first in line with complaints about the newest member. Darren Gersh, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 GHARIB: A couple of big e-commerce software deals in the works today. First, Vignette (VIGN) is buying OnDisplay (ONDS) for $1.7 billion in stock. The deal values OnDisplay at $70 a share. It went public last December at $28. The Vignette-OnDisplay transaction is expected to close in the third quarter, but Vignette says it won`t be accretive until next year. But investors weren`t sold on the deal. Vignette stock fell almost 9 points to 34 7/8 and OnDisplay stock gained a fraction to 54 1/8. Well, the other big deal in the news: Webmethods (WEBM), the B to B software maker, is buying Active Software (ASWX) for $1.3 billion in stock. The deal values Active Software at almost $46 a share, a 31 percent premium from Friday`s closing price of $33. The deal is expected to close in the third quarter. And Webmethods says that buying Active Software lets it offer a complete line of business to business software. Paul? 

 KANGAS: Investors reacted rather negatively to the deal, Active Software stock down 15/16 to 32 1/16. Webmethods tumbled 15 points to close at 72. And that`s not the only thing that tumbled today, especially earlier in the session. But the Dow came back from well over a 240 point loss, down to 84.30. The broader market, as you can see, still negative by a 17 to 11 margin. Only 30 new yearly highs, 120 new lows. 

 General Motors (GM) common stock topped the active list on 19.6 million shares, tumbling 9 9/16. Followed by GMH (GMH) up 6 7/8. Now, the company`s offer to give General Motors H stock in exchange for GM common was heavily over subscribed. GMH had a big day on the up side now. Here`s the deal. If you wanted to exchange 100 shares of common to get the GMH stock, only 25 of those shares would be exchanged by the company. What do you do with the other 75 shares? A lot of people apparently sold them, hence the big loss in GM common and with the proceeds they probably went out and bought GMH, which they seem to want a lot more, hence the big gain. 

 General Electric (GE) down 1 7/8. 

 Then Nokia (NOK) down only 1 11/16 after being as low as 44 7/8 during the day. You can see what a nice comeback some of these high tech favorites made. 

 AT&T (T) moved up 3/4. 

 Nortel Network (NT) down 7/8. 

 AT&T Wireless (AWE) off a 1 5/8. 

 America Online (AOL) dropped 1 1/4. 

 Compaq Computer (CPQ) down 5/8. 

 And 10th in big board volume was Philip Morris (MO), losing 1/8. 

 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) fell 3 7/16. Francisco Partners will acquire 90 percent of this company`s communications products division. 

 Deere & Company (DE) bucking the overall trend, up 2 3/4. Bear Stearns repeated a "buy" saying that the granting to China of permanent normal trade relations would be a big plus factor for Deere & Company. 

 Halliburton (HAL) moving down 3 1/2 points. Donaldson Lufkin Brokerage downgraded it from "buy" to just "market perform." Also, New York June crude oil was down $1.28 a barrel. That didn`t help. 

 LSI Logic (LSI) dropping 1 1/4. The company will buy Datapath Systems for $420 million in LSI stock, perhaps a little fear of dilution there. 

 IBM (IBM) moved up 2 3/16. 

 And JP Morgan (JPM) up 2 13/16, the two best point gainers in the Dow Industrial Average today. 

 Watsco (WSO) had a nice move, up 1 5/8. The company says its Internet initiative, giving residential customers access to many air conditioning contractors is doing very well. 

 Tupperware (TUP) up 1 7/8. First of all, the latest "Business Week" out late last week had positive comments about the company and now it`s revealed a German marketing firm has purchased a nine and a half percent stake in Tupperware and there`s speculation that German firm may bid $40 for all the rest of the stock. 

 MBIA (MBI), the Municipal Bond Insurance Company, up 4 1/8. Barron`s has a very positive article on the company this week. Incidentally, the adjusted book value is at $54.31 and the stock is selling for book value for just a touch more. 

 Castle and Cooke (CCS), the Hawaiian land developer, up 1 3/16. The company`s chairman, who has a buyout firm, is offering to buy the 73 percent of the stock not already owned for a price of $18.50 a share. 

 Ryerson Tull (RT), which is in the metals processing business, well, expects just a small profit in the second quarter. Wall Street was looking for $0.49 in earnings per share. 

 Westpoint Stevens (WXS) tumbling 4 3/4. The company has ended its recapitalization plan that would have given stockholders $22 a share. It did set a special dividend of $2 a share, but it says it`s going to stop exploring strategic alternatives. 

 The NASDAQ Index down 26.19, a long way from that 218 point loss during the day. Volume up 250 million shares from Friday, 12 stocks up for every 27 lower. The Composite Index, we see here again, we`re having a little problem moving along with our highlighter here, 1,207 advances and decliners, 2,775. 

 Now, let`s get into the actives. There we go, QUALCOMM (QCOM) down 3/4. 

 Yahoo! (YHOO) moving up 5 15/16. 

 Applied Materials (AMAT) down 7/8. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) gained 3 5/16. 

 Then CIENA (CIEN) was off 8 5/8, although it did make a partial recovery. 

 Performance Technologies (PTIX) plunging 16 13/16. The company issued a second quarter profit warning, says it will earn about $0.11 a share. The Street was looking for $0.19 a share. 

 SBS Broadcasting (SBTV) tumbling 8 1/4 points. The company and United Pan Europe Communications have terminated their merger proposal due to market conditions. 

 And Herbalife International (HERBA) down 1 3/16. Mark Hughes, the company`s founder, chairman and CEO was found dead today in his palatial Malibu mansion. He was only 44 but apparently died of natural causes. 

 The American Exchange Index down 10.40. 

 Duraswitch Industries (DRA) moved up 7/8, one of the best percentage gainers. The company received $4 million from Delphi Automotive (DPH) for the rights to use Duralife`s switching technology, I should say Duraswitch Industries` switching technology. 

 And then BioTime (BTX) down 1 5/16. The company said no specific corporate developments, just blamed the weakness on the general downturn in the biotech sector. 

 And finally, the Index Shares, the NASDAQ Qs managed a gain. 

 And that`s the Wall Street Wrap Up. Susie? 

 GHARIB: Paul, the price of gold edged up a bit today. In New York trading, the June contract rose $1.60 to $276.20, but that`s still well below the $325 range where gold was trading in February. Joining us live now to talk about the outlook for gold is our colleague Melanie Lovatt, Senior Metals Reporter at BridgeNews. Hi, Melanie. 

 MELANIE LOVATT, SENIOR METALS REPORTER, BRIDGENEWS: Hi. 

 GHARIB: All right, so the Bank of England is going to be selling off a little bit of gold tomorrow. What kind of impact might that have on gold prices? 

 LOVATT: Well, even if we don`t see any impact just after the sale it`s already done some damage. Gold prices fell to a seven and a half month low last week and that`s in part due the these sales. 

 GHARIB: All right. So going forward, this Bank of England sale, it is important at all? 

 LOVATT: I think it`s important because it`s one sale every couple of months, but people know when it`s taking place and it just hangs like a cloud over the market. 

 GHARIB: Well, as I mentioned a moment ago, we had the price of gold up into that 325 range back in February. There are a number of factors, I guess, that have been pulling it down besides these sales. The strong dollar can`t be helping. 

 LOVATT: No. The strong dollar is indeed a very big negative for gold and also another big negative is a very strong stock market. 

 GHARIB: Well, it didn`t feel that way today with the way the stock market has been selling off recently, but that`s still putting pressure on the price of gold. 

 LOVATT: Yeah. Gold got some respite today when the stock market came down. But, yes, it has been pressuring it strongly. 

 GHARIB: So Melanie, of the people you`re talking to, what are they saying is the short-term outlook on the price of gold? Here it is at $276 now. Where do they see it going? 

 LOVATT: Well, I think most people, unless there is a pullback in the dollar or the stock market, see it staying around that level. If there is a pull back in the dollar or in stocks to a greater degree than we`ve already had, then there was a chance that gold could reach the 320 level again. 

 GHARIB: You know, not too many portfolios really have gold in it anymore. I mean it`s very unusual. Why should we be concerned about the direction of gold? 

 LOVATT: Well, I guess the market has been good to everybody and gold is insurance. But, you know, even when things are going well, you really need to carry insurance and gold is insurance against some kind of calamity, like Y2K fears. People started investing then. 

 GHARIB: All right. Well, thanks for giving us this update on the price of gold. We really appreciate it. And we`ve been speaking with Melanie Lovatt of BridgeNews. 

 KANGAS: Tomorrow, a new series. Whatever happened to customer service? We begin with a look at where customer service is slipping. 

 GHARIB: Microsoft (MSFT) fired another shot in its battle against the government`s antitrust case. In a surprise legal filing today, Microsoft asserted that as recently as 1995, the government said that breaking up the software giant would not benefit consumers. The Justice Department made that point in a previous antitrust case. Today`s filing comes just two days before a hearing is to begin in the remedy phase of the trial. KANGAS: The NASDAQ stock market is slashing the fees it charges to view real time stock quotes. The exchange will now charge non-professional investors $10 a month to view Level 2 quotes, which include price data and market makers and electronic networks like Island and Instanet. The $10 a month fee marks an 80 percent decrease from the $50 a month the NASDAQ was charging. 

 GHARIB: Disappointing earnings news today from the New York Stock Exchange, first quarter net income about $23 million. That`s down 17 percent from last year and that`s despite an increase in daily trading volume and revenues. Average daily trading volume was just over a billion shares a day in the first quarter. That`s up by almost 200,000 shares a day. The world`s largest stock exchange says that the decline in earnings came from a 17.3 percent increase in expenses at the NYSE. 

 KANGAS: Recapping today`s market action, the Dow lost 84 points and the NASDAQ Index fell 26 points. And please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: NBR. 

 GHARIB: And finally, get your sweet tooth ready. Baskin Robbins has built the world`s largest ice cream scoop pyramid, making it into the "Guinness Book of World Records." It took 3,100 scoops of ice cream to build the pyramid. Oh, boy, look at that. It weighs roughly 800 pounds and has somewhere in the neighborhood of 496,000 calories. This is Baskin Robbins` second time in the Guinness book. It also holds the world`s record for largest ice cream cake. 

 KANGAS: All of it is surely a sign that the hot, sizzling summer is nearly upon us. 

 GHARIB: You know, I love ice cream. 

 KANGAS: I do too. 

 GHARIB: And I like Baskin Robbins ice cream, but I don`t know. What did they say, 3,100 scoops of ice cream? Too much even for me. 

 KANGAS: You need it to survive the summer. 

 GHARIB: I`ll divide it with you, Paul. That`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Monday, May 22nd. I`m Susie Gharib. Have a good evening, everyone. And nice to have you back, Paul. Good night. 

 KANGAS: Thank you, Susie, and you have a good night. I`m Paul Kangas, wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post-broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. 

 The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. 

 Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. 

 c2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dw5m0002t




 POLL-Nissan, Mazda, Mitsubishi earnings forecasts. 

687 words
19 May 2000
02:13
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 TOKYO, May 19 (Reuters) - Following are earnings forecasts for restructuring Japanese automakers Nissan Motor Co , Mitsubishi Motors Corp and Mazda Motor Co . 

 Like Toyota Motor Corp and Honda Motor Co , which have released their results, the three struggling automakers' earnings for the year ended March 31 are expected to be affected by the robust yen, weak domestic demand and soft sales in Europe. 

 Going forward, analysts are focusing primarily on the three struggling Japanese carmakers' cost-cutting efforts and their long-term plans with their dominant foreign partners. 

 Nissan is 36.8 percent owned by French automaker Renault SA . DaimlerChrysler AG agreed in March to buy a 34 percent stake in Mitsubishi Motors. And Ford Motor Co owns a controlling 33.3 percent stake in Mazda Motor. 

 Japan's two fully independent automakers - Honda and Toyota - posted sharply different earnings results for the past year. 

 Honda reported its group operating profit declined 22 percent to 426 billion yen mainly because of the strong yen, and it shocked markets by predicting a further 27 percent decline this year. 

 Toyota, Japan's biggest automaker, managed to nullify the effect of the 14 percent rise in the yen's value against the dollar with robust sales, more profitable vehicles and cost cuts. Operating profit was flat and analysts have predicted that it will be able to maintain that profit level this year. 

 Reuters polled five analysts and all earnings forecasts are on a consolidated basis for the year ending March 31, 2000. 

 NISSAN MOTOR CO will announce its earnings on May 19 at 3 p.m. (0600 GMT). 

 Nissan has said it will post massive extraordinary losses in 1999/00 in connection with its three-year restructuring plan. 

 It also issued a profit warning in February, citing poor sales in the domestic market. Analysts say its Japanese and European operations are expected to show a loss, while most if not all of its operating profit will come from the United States. 

 Group operating profit was seen ranging from 30 billion yen to 41 billion yen. Analysts' projections put Nissan's group net loss between 630 and 650 billion yen. 

 The outlook for its share price, now around 510 yen, is expected to depend on the pace of restructuring and how four new models to be launched this business year are received. 

 MITSUBISHI MOTORS will announce its earnings on May 25 at 1 p.m. (0400 GMT). 

 Mitsubishi Motors found a much-needed partner in DaimlerChrysler, but the domestic truck market remains depressed and MMC's passenger cars have put in a lacklustre sales performance. 

 Group operating profit estimates range from 20 billion yen to 50 billion yen; Mitsubishi Motors posted a group operating profit of 55.9 billion yen the previous year. It is seen posting a net loss between 17 billion yen to 42 billion yen. 

 Many details of the alliance with DaimlerChrysler are still up in the air and its share price is likely to respond to signs of how much say DaimlerChrysler has in cost-cutting efforts. 

 Its share price closed at 375 yen on Thursday. 

 MAZDA MOTOR CORP will announce earnings on May 26 at 1 p.m. (0400 GMT). 

 Exporting some two-thirds of the vehicles it produces in Japan, Mazda has been battered by the strength of the yen and weak sales in Europe. 

 Mazda lowered its net profit estimate to 25 billion yen from 40 billion yen, in line with analysts' forecasts. Analysts say, however, sales of shareholdings will boost its bottom line. Mazda posted a group net profit of 38.7 billion yen last year, its first profit in six years. 

 Operating profit is expected to be around 22 billion yen, down from 62.5 billion yen the previous year. 

 Mazda's share price has fallen from around 560 yen last December to about 350 yen now, and analysts say the outlook for the company depends heavily on currency movements and how it differentiates its products from Ford's. ((Tokyo Equities Desk +81-3 3432 9404 tokyo.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

  . (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5j007ub




 UPDATE 2-Equant shares crash amid Q1 results gloom. 

 By Dominique Vidalon 
683 words
18 May 2000
17:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 PARIS, May 18 (Reuters) - Equant shares were hammered down 20 percent on Thursday as investors punished the communications network company for widening losses in the first quarter and what they saw as a lack of transparency. 

 Equant, which trades in Paris and New York, announced late Wednesday, after the close of New York trading, that its first-quarter loss widened to $24.6 million, or 12 cents a share, from $7.1 million or four cents a share a year earlier. 

 The news, which followed rumours of a profit warning, unleashed a flood of downgrades from brokerage and triggered a record trading volume of over 10 million Equant shares in Paris as investors baled out of the stock. 

 The share price plunged to a low of 50.70 euros before picking up slightly to close at 53.50 - still 21.32 percent down from Wednesday and 60.9 percent below a year's high of 137 euros set on February 11. 

 In New York the share price slid to $48-3/4, down 20.57 percent from Wednesday. 

 Equant began trading on the Paris Bourse in July 1998 at a launch price of 240 francs (37 euros) and was among the bourse's top performers last year, gaining 90 percent as investors piled into "New Economy" plays, driven by a global Internet frenzy. 

 "The stock's collapse is pretty big but it reflects the market's disappointment given Equant's high valuations. I don't even think this is an excessive reaction," one trader said. 

 Several major brokers immediately revised down their recommendations on the stock and traders said they were braced for more revisions in coming days. 

 Merrill Lynch cut Equant to intermediate "neutral" from "accumulate" and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter to "outperform" from "buy", lowering its price target to 109 euros from 135. 

 Dresdner Keinwort Benson cut the stock to "hold" from "add", deploring what it called a lack of visibility and transparency. 

 "The bottom line is that it is not just the first quarter that is disappointing but the trend," Dresdner analysts said. 

 TALK OF PROFIT WARNING EMERGED A WEEK AGO 

 Equant's stock had fallen more than 25 percent since last Thursday, when talk first emerged in the market that it might issue a profit warning or report the loss of a key contract. 

 On Monday Lehman Brothers said Equant had hinted at strong margin pressures ahead of the results. However, Equant had kept silent on stock price movements and the market rumours. 

 "The results confirmed the rumours of a profit warning. The fact that they did not say anything when the rumours emerged is very bad for the group's image," one trader said. 

 Equant's first-quarter results included charges related to an employee stock option plan. Although traffic volumes rose 125 percent, network costs increased 57 percent. These higher costs, combined with product mix changes and more pricing pressure, hurt margins. 

 Equant said it expected the gross margin in its network services business to move toward 1999 levels during the second half of the year. But several analysts said they lacked visibility on recovery prospects. 

 "The core network services business faced strong pressure on margins which fell in the first quarter and should continue to fall in the second. They are promising a recovery in margins from the third quarter but this remains to be confirmed," CCF Securities analyst Gilbert Soubie said, reiterating his "reduce" rating. 

 "The results were very poor. The issue is clearly costs and prices and not so much revenues," one analyst at a Paris-based foreign brokerage said. 

 The analyst said he was cutting EBITDA forecasts by 20 percent for 2000 and 13 percent for 2001 but remained a buyer of the stock because the "share price has declined so much". 

 Another analyst said he saw little chance of a recovery in the third and fourth quarters. "The results are worse than expected, notably for operating margins," he said, adding he was considering cutting EPS forecasts. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5i005rf




 BUSINESS 
 BRIEFLY Series: BRIEFLY; Earnings 

888 words
18 May 2000
St. Petersburg Times
STPT
SOUTH PINELLAS
7E
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 CAMPBELL ISSUES WARNING: Campbell Soup Co. warned that profit will fall this fiscal year because Americans are eating less soup. Earnings for the year ending in July will be 8 cents to 12 cents a share less than the $1.76 average estimate of analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial. Campbell earned $1.72 last year. Sales of Campbell's soups at U.S. supermarkets fell 11 of the past 12 months. Campbell also said net income fell 14 percent in the third quarter ended April 30 to $139-million, as consumer purchases of its soups fell 9 percent. Campbell's shares fell $1.19 to $29.25 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 IBM OFFERS LINUX WITH 

 MAINFRAMES: IBM is offering Linux software and services for its mainframe computers in a bid to capture business from Internet companies that may choose rival Sun Microsystems Inc. Customers have retrieved about 2,100 copies of Linux from the Web since January, when IBM first offered a test version for its mainframes, and IBM says the number of downloads is accelerating. IBM wants to let companies create software programs for Linux that can run on different computers linked together in a network or over the Internet. 

 AMWAY ANNOUNCES JOB CUTS: Direct-sales giant Amway Corp. said it plans to cut nearly 11 percent of its global work force, or 1,300 jobs, as part of a restructuring expected to save $300-million annually. About 900 jobs will be cut at the company's world headquarters in Ada, Mich. Management and salaried positions will be most affected by the cuts, with the company expecting to identify most of the affected positions by Aug. 31. Amway announced in February that it was reorganizing in response to sluggish sales and the changing business environment. Amway employs about 12,000 people worldwide. 

 WACHOVIA EXPANDS TAMPA 

 PRESENCE: After opening its first bay area branch in downtown Tampa this week, Wachovia Bank plans to follow up with two more branches in the area by year-end. A Tampa office in Carrollwood is scheduled to open in the third quarter 2000. Offices also are planned in South Tampa, New Tampa and Temple Terrace. The Winston-Salem, N.C., bank is eager to make up lost time after its fellow North Carolina bankers, Bank of America Corp. and First Union Corp., grew into the top two banks operating in Florida. Last year, Wachovia moved its Florida divisional headquarters from Boca Raton to Tampa with plans to ramp up. At the time, the bank predicted it would open six branches in the Tampa Bay area by the spring of 2000. 

 INTEL PLANS STOCK SPLIT: Intel Corp. said it is splitting its shares 2-for-1 and boosting its quarterly dividend by a third. Intel is raising its dividend to 2 cents from 1.5 cents on a post-split basis. The split will take place on July 30 for shareholders of record as of July 2. Intel last split its stock in April 1999, when it also raised its dividend. Intel's shares, which are up 50 percent this year, have more than doubled in the past 12 months. Intel closed at $123.19, up $1.31. 

 CEMENT OPERATION ON THE BLOCK: Florida Crushed Stone Co. has put its Brooksville cement plant up for sale, according to cement industry experts, and may have a bidder in a local competitor. Industry analysts say Florida Rock Industries, which wants to place a new plant near its mining operations north of Brooksville, is one of several companies interested in buying the cement operation. It was not clear if the mining operation is also up for sale. Neither company would comment about a pending sale, but Roy Grancher, a cement consultant based in Marietta, Ga., said he represents a client that is bidding for the facility. 

 WALL STREET SNEERS AT LYCOS DEAL: Shares of Web company Lycos Inc. dropped 21 percent as analysts frowned on its planned acquisition by Spanish Internet service provider Terra Networks SA. Some said Lycos shareholders were sold short because Lycos is profitable, while Terra had not expected to be profitable until 2003. Other analysts said Terra was paying too much for Lycos. Terra will pay $12.5-billion in stock for Lycos to create the third-largest Internet portal in the world, serving the United States, Latin America and Europe. Lycos fell $15.01 to $57.61 at 4 p.m. on the Nasdaq Stock Market. U.S. shares of Terra were down 12 percent, or $6.56, at $47, also on the Nasdaq. 

 Earnings 

 Uniroyal Technology Corp. 

 The Sarasota maker of optoelectronics, coated fabrics and specialty adhesives reported a onetime gain in its second quarter ended April 2 of $57.1-million from the February sale of its high- performance plastics business. While revenues fell 5 percent, sales for its Tampa-based optoelectronics unit increased 961 percent to $902,000 from $85,000 a year ago. The unit's quarterly income loss of $3.2-million reflects the continued start-up costs of producing high- brightness light-emitting diodes. The Tampa facility began LED shipments during the second quarter. 

 2ndQtr      Year Ago 

 Revenue      $16.1-mil   $17-mil 

 Net Income   $60.2-mil   $1-mil 

 Per Share    $2.08       4 cents 

Document stpt000020010813dw5i00kav




 Gymboree Posts Loss, Reiterates Warning About Weakness In 2nd Quarter 

384 words
18 May 2000
14:35
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Children's apparel designer and retailer Gymboree Corp. reported a first-quarter loss on "disappointing" sales stemming from inventory problems. 

 Shares of Gymboree were lower in Nasdaq trading in the wake of the news. 

 The company also reiterated that second-quarter sales will be weak but the second half of the year should bring a return to profitability. The company issued a warning about first-half losses May 4. 

 For the quarter ended April 29, Burlingame, Calif.-based Gymboree (GYMB) said its net loss came to $13.76 million, or 56 cents a diluted share, compared with net income of about $4.8 million, or 20 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue plunged 20% to $100.6 million from $125.7 million. 

 The result for the latest period was in line with expectations of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Earlier this month, Gymboree said first quarter same-store sales, or sales at stores open at least a year, fell 24%. 

 The company on Thursday attributed its sales decline and loss for the quarter to "inappropriate inventory in terms of both level and style." Inventories were 29% below last year, and the content wasn't up to the standards set for the third and fourth quarters, Gymboree said. 

 The company expects "disappointing" sales and income to continue through the second quarter. But it sees a 25% to 35% rise above year-earlier levels in the second half of the year. To achieve the turnaround the company plans to replace its current credit facility with a new three-year, $60 million secured facility. 

 When it issued its profit warning earlier this month Gymboree said it planned to raise capital by extending its credit facility and by selling 2.5 million of its common shares for $7.4 million, or $2.97 each, to an investor group led by Chairman and Chief Executive Stuart Moldaw.  The company already has sold 1.7 million shares. Gymboree also issued warrants for 505,000 shares at $2.97 each. The company had about 24.4 million common shares outstanding at the end of January. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dw5i01axg




 ANALYSIS-U.S. firms impotent in face of euro slide. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
1,061 words
17 May 2000
21:10
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, May 17 (Reuters) - Major U.S. corporations say they have been caught off guard by the euro's mauling and warn their currency hedges may not be enough to cushion against further declines in already-sagging U.S. dollar revenues from Europe. 

 The single European currency has fallen a whopping 24 percent to 89 cents against the U.S. dollar since its debut in January 1999 - largely on concern that European growth is lagging well behind the fast-paced U.S. economy. 

 If the euro's current lows hold, or if it drops more, further warnings about erosion in sales growth are likely, analysts and company executives said. 

 U.S. titans including soft drinks bottler Coca-Cola Enterprises, fastfood chain McDonald's Corp., copying company Xerox Corp. and photography firm Eastman Kodak Co., have said European sales have been, or may continue to be hit this year due to the euro's jitters. 

 Others include computer printer maker Lexmark International, computer services supplier Unisys Corp., CNH Global NV, the world's largest maker of tractors and combines, and Deere & Co., one of the biggest makers of farm equipment. 

 The weak currency means profits earned by American companies in euros lose value when they are converted back into dollars, hitting corporate balance sheets. At the same time U.S. firms face stiff competition from European exporters whose products are cheapened on world markets by a weaker euro. 

 The euro also has declined about 15 percent against the British pound, exacerbating problems for U.S. companies such as Coca-Cola Enterprises that are losing sales in Britain as customers there shop in cheaper locations. 

 "Clearly the weakness of the euro has caught us by surprise," said Lexmark's chief financial officer Gary Morin, whose Lexington, Kentucky-based firm generates 37 percent of its revenue in Europe. 

 "If the euro continues to be weak as it is now by the end of June, it certainly is worse than we had expected," he said, adding Lexmark would make an announcement if it thought a slide left it significantly off prior guidance on financial results. 

 Kodak, which pulls in 30 percent of its sales from Europe, went a step further. The photography giant's CFO Bob Brust said on Tuesday that revenue growth this year may be two to three percentage points slower that previously projected, if the euro's current weakness continues. 

 "Earlier in the year, I would have never guessed it would have gotten as low as 89 (cents). I actually thought the euro might strengthen this year," Brust told Reuters. 

 These remarks echoed comments made to analysts in a conference call Tuesday by John Alm, President and Chief Operating Officer of Coca-Cola Enterprises, whose stock was savaged after issuing a profit warning early this week. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises, Coca-Cola Co.'s largest bottler, blamed British market weakness caused by sterling's gains against the euro. The Atlanta-based bottler's share was punished heavily, falling about 33 percent on Tuesday, as a number of investment firms cut the firm's earnings estimates to levels more in line with its own forecasts. 

 CURRENCY HEDGING HELPS BUT GETTING EXPENSIVE 

 Many of these firms try to protect the value of their foreign exchange revenues by buying or selling currency futures or options positions which hedge them against a sharp increase or a decrease in the cash market. 

 But analysts say there's only so much hedging exposures can guard a firm. And lately, it's becoming an expensive exercise. 

 "There's a little bit of hedging out there but given the magnitude of the (euro's) drop - and each company has its own specific situation too - hedging can only defer judgment day for so long," Merrill Lynch analyst Peter Oakes said. 

 "(Hedging) is a trade-off...There comes a point where the economics of hedging do not justify a stepped-up effort in that direction," Oakes told Reuters. 

 A currency derivatives expert at a New England bank said that market uncertainty has sent one-year volatility on buying euro put options to protect downside risk climbing, making it more expensive for firms to hedge. 

 "It's gotten much more expensive to buy these puts," he said. A "put" options is a contract which gives a holder the right, but not the obligation, to sell the underlying asset at an agreed price within a specified time. 

 "This is a clear indication that there's a problem and people are worried that this thing may deteriorate further." 

 Kodak's Brust said that amid the currency slide, his firm revived its hedging programme in the first quarter. 

 For the second quarter, Rochester, N.Y.-based Kodak is trying to hedge up to half of its euro income and increase that target a little in the second half of 2000, Brust added. 

 "It's hard to hedge the whole thing; you don't know what the future is. You're betting and it gets very expensive," Brust said. "We can hedge part of this exchange but not enough that it would not be bothersome to us." 

 Lexmark's Morin said his firm's "conservative and programmed" approach to hedging helps it offset currency variations of about five percent, but can do little to guard its bottom line against much bigger price declines. 

 "You can be a more active manager and try to forecast where the currency is going to be and then take a number of actions. But if you're wrong, you're doubly wrong," Morin adds. 

 "We understand that on average no body beats the market. We do not try to forecast where the currency will be," he said. 

 WORST MAY NOT BE OVER FOR EURO 

 Despite the euro slide, and some forecasts it may even ease further, a number of Fortune 500 U.S. firms with big exposure have not done any hedging, leaving them to absorb the full blow. 

 "We're talking to major companies that had major exposure to this thing that could not believe the price action and they've had to absorb the entire losses. There's a lot of wishful thinking (the euro will improve)," said one currency expert whose technical forecasts see the euro going down to 80 cents. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5h00cyd




 Editorial Rdp  

 By The Associated Press  
1,321 words
17 May 2000
19:02
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.  

 Here are excerpts from editorials in newspapers in the United States and abroad:  

 May 17  

 The Des Moines (Iowa) Register, on Bobby Knight:  

 The Hoosier brass choked Monday. Indiana University President Myles Brand shot an air ball. He announced basketball coach Bob Knight would be suspended for three games, fined $30,000 and forced to follow a supervised code of conduct. Knight will be allowed to keep his job despite his "pattern of inappropriate behavior," but one slip-up and the coach is history.  

 The punishment is akin to expecting the great white shark not to grab the chunk of meat because it's meant for the blue marlin.  

 Knight's crude and repulsive behavior should have got him fired years ago. ...  

 Brand in essense said Monday that what Knight did is tolerable. To be sure, the university shares culpability through its silence all these years. The man is a bully. His behavior has embarrassed the university and the state of Indiana. His antics send the message to young people that abusive behavior by coaches is acceptable, even admired. ...  

 IU presidents looked the other way. Athletic directors looked the other way. Alumni, fans, and even players and their parents looked the other way. On Monday, Brand and the school's board of trustees all looked the other way. ...  

 May 12  

 The Miami Herald, on AIDS drugs for poor nations:  

 Those fighting AIDS got some powerful allies this week when five of the world's largest drug companies agreed to slash the prices of HIV drugs for people living in poor nations. That means millions of people throughout Africa and the Caribbean Basin living with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, will now get access to those lifesaving drugs. ...  

 Still, the biggest hurdle was the cost of the drugs. The lower prices, though still too high for many, will go far in combating this epidemic. The combination of three or four drugs needed to keep the virus at bay will now cost between $150 and $200 a month in those countries, unlike the $10,000 and $15,000 a year it costs in the United States and Europe. ...  

 President Clinton ... commendably issued an executive order declaring that the United States will not interfere with countries that violate American patent laws to provide AIDS drugs at lower costs.  

 That should be a warning to the drug companies. Profit margins are never more important than life itself.  

 May 15  

 The Norman (Okla.) Transcript, on People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals:  

 We haven't seen one in our area yet, but we've been reading about billboards in other places bearing the message, "Jesus was a vegetarian."  

 The latest controversy stirred up by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals gets Christian carnivores riled in just about every city it hits. ...  

 The Bible is mostly silent on what Jesus ate, preferring to focus on what he taught, but it's not entirely silent. We refer the reader to the 24th chapter of Luke, where the risen Jesus appears to the disciples. In verses 41-43 we read, "And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat? And they gave him a piece of broiled fish, and of an honeycomb. And he took it, and did eat before them." Pareve but not vegetarian, unless you consider fish a vegetable.  

 May 15  

 Charleston (W.Va.) Daily Mail, on Million Mom March:  

 The duel between Million Mom March Inc. and Second Amendment Sisters Inc. for the hearts and minds of the American people on Sunday should have been spelled d-u-a-l.  

 Both sides have good ideas about a problem that is still too big to be ignored. ...  

 To hasten the decline of gun deaths, Donna Dees-Thomases, whose sister-in-law is a close friend of Hillary Clinton ... organized a rally to demand new gun laws. ...  

 One proposal would close the loophole regarding background checks for buyers at gun shows. Trigger locks and mandatory gun safety classes are among other proposals. ...  

 To counteract that rally, the Second Sisters were hastily organized. They call for protecting the Second Amendment right to own a gun and for better enforcement of existing laws. ...  

 Some unsolicited advice to the moms and sisters: Emulate Mothers Against Drunk Driving.  

 That means being nonpartisan. That means holding people, not cars or guns, responsible for their actions. That means new laws. That means better enforcement of existing laws.  

 That means working together.  

 MORE  

 May 15  

 American Press of Lake Charles, La., on ecstacy:  

 An illicit drug called ecstacy is pouring into the United States in such quantities that an epidemic is not only possible, but probable.  

 Parents need to talk to their kids about this one, and young people need to know that ecstacy is bad news. ...  

 Ecstacy is popular among young people. Sadly, this is the group that is most vulnerable to the effects of the drug, which produces euphoria and an increased desire to interact socially. ...  

 Blood pressure, heart rate and body temperature increase dramatically. Other physical symptoms include involuntary teeth-grinding. To counter this, some users suck on pacifiers. ...  

 The more parents and teen-agers learn about ecstacy, the better equipped they will be to make sure the answer is "No!" when someone suggests using it.  

 May 15  

 The Plain Dealer of Cleveland, Ohio:  

 The Philadelphia school board has made its district the largest in the country to require students in every school to wear uniforms. The policy change ... is supposed to cut down on distractions and discipline problems.  

 It is true that students are less likely to battle over Nike sneakers at school if they're not wearing them in buildings. It's also true that parents may save money - and students time - if the choice of school clothing is limited to a couple of colors and styles. But as some students and parents pointed out at Philadelphia's school board meeting, blue bottoms and a white top offer no guarantee of academic improvement.  

 Not that uniform policies are a bad idea. But parents and policymakers cannot expect the adoption of uniform regulations to relieve them of their duties toward real education reform.  

 May 9:  

 The Herald-Journal of Spartanburg, S.C., on rejecting the expansion of hate crime laws:  

 The federal government should not be policing the thoughts and attitudes of Americans or taking control of state criminal matters. That's why Congress should resist President Clinton's proposal to expand the federal hate crimes law. ...  

 Hate crimes laws put the government in the unconstitutional role of policing individuals' thoughts and attitudes. ...  

 Laws against hate crimes expand the government's power into our thoughts and attitudes. The federal statute expands the national government's control over state and local law enforcement. The president's proposal should be dropped on both grounds.  

 May 12, 2000  

 Boca Raton (Fla.) News, on gender gap in pay:  

 It is hard to believe it but even in the 21st century, even in boom-times America, women still earn less than men doing the same job. This disturbing news shows that discrimination, despite all our social advances and legislation to stamp it out, dies a hard death. ...  

 This is not only shameful, it is, in many instances illegal. Those employers who indulge in such archaic salary shifting need to understand both the moral and legal peril of what they are doing and be made to pay both penalties if they persist. ...  

 What possible excuse can there be for paying a woman $7.60 an hour to perform the same tasks for which a man is paid $10?  

 One answer is simple but unacceptably trite, it always has been that way. But as times have changed, so, too, has the value of women in the workplace. ...  

 Equal pay for equal work, that is how it must be.  

 MORE  

Rush

Document aprs000020010803dw5h0a9zy




 Profit warning  as things get worsewith Coca-Cola 

459 words
17 May 2000
The Express
THEEXP
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 The Express; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 in Washington 

 Things continued to go bad with Coca-Cola last night after another European snarl-up left a nasty taste in investors' mouths. 

 Shares in Coca-Cola Enterprises, the world's biggest bottler and distributor of soft drinks, plunged 30 per cent in early trading in New York and shares in parent company Coca-Cola slid in sympathy. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises, spun off from its giant parent 14 years ago, said an increase in the pound against the euro and a shake-up at its British operations would slice profits. 

 It would take a charge of $12million (nearly GBP8million) to cut an unspecified number of jobs and restructure its UK operations. 

 It warned profits would fall almost 50 per cent short of expectations and that had company watchers wondering when the run of bad news would end. It began with contamination scares in Belgium and France last year. 

 Caroline Levy of UBS Warburg said: "Clearly this is disappointing and it looks like they have their work cut out. The focus was on getting that recall fixed and it appears they didn't notice there was a disconnect in the UK compared with the rest of Europe." 

 The root of Coke's latest troubles appeared simple. Coca-Cola Enterprises' British arm was being done in by soft drinks flowing into the UK from other European countries where the euro made them cheaper than those priced in the UK in pounds. 

 But the fall-out was more complex. Doubts envelope not just the bottling arm but the entire Coca-Cola empire. 

 The criticism, fashioned along the "what were they thinking?" theme, was similar to that levelled against Coke in 1999 when company executives initially shrugged off reports that European customers were falling ill after drinking the fizzy soft drink. 

 The handling of that scare helped cost Coca-Cola chief Douglas Ivester his job. The new head of the parent company, Australian Douglas Daft, 56, has vowed to rebuild Coke's once squeaky clean image. 

 But that was made more difficult after European competition authorities stepped up their investigations into whether the company was bullying its rivals. 

 Officials of the Office of Fair Trading spent two days in Coca-Cola offices in London going over documents to see if the company and its subsidiaries were abusing their dominant position in the marketplace. 

 These woes, taken together, have helped wipe 34 per cent or roughly GBP33billion from the market value of parent company Coca-Cola.The company's major investors, who include billionaires Warren Buffett and Saudi Prince al-Waleed, must be wondering when it will all end - or whether the best days are behind one of America's major cultural and financial icons. 

Document theexp0020010805dw5h005m9




 Editorial Roundup 

 By The Associated Press 
2,207 words
17 May 2000
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2000 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 Here are excerpts from editorials in newspapers in the United States and abroad: 

 May 17 

 The Des Moines (Iowa) Register, on Bobby Knight: 

 The Hoosier brass choked Monday. Indiana University President Myles Brand shot an air ball. He announced basketball coach Bob Knight would be suspended for three games, fined $30,000 and forced to follow a supervised code of conduct. Knight will be allowed to keep his job despite his "pattern of inappropriate behavior," but one slip-up and the coach is history. 

 The punishment is akin to expecting the great white shark not to grab the chunk of meat because it's meant for the blue marlin. 

 Knight's crude and repulsive behavior should have got him fired years ago. ... 

 Brand in essense said Monday that what Knight did is tolerable. To be sure, the university shares culpability through its silence all these years. The man is a bully. His behavior has embarrassed the university and the state of Indiana. His antics send the message to young people that abusive behavior by coaches is acceptable, even admired. ... 

 IU presidents looked the other way. Athletic directors looked the other way. Alumni, fans, and even players and their parents looked the other way. On Monday, Brand and the school's board of trustees all looked the other way. ... 

 May 12 

 The Miami Herald, on AIDS drugs for poor nations: 

 Those fighting AIDS got some powerful allies this week when five of the world's largest drug companies agreed to slash the prices of HIV drugs for people living in poor nations. That means millions of people throughout Africa and the Caribbean Basin living with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, will now get access to those lifesaving drugs. ... 

 Still, the biggest hurdle was the cost of the drugs. The lower prices, though still too high for many, will go far in combating this epidemic. The combination of three or four drugs needed to keep the virus at bay will now cost between $150 and $200 a month in those countries, unlike the $10,000 and $15,000 a year it costs in the United States and Europe. ... 

 President Clinton ... commendably issued an executive order declaring that the United States will not interfere with countries that violate American patent laws to provide AIDS drugs at lower costs. 

 That should be a warning to the drug companies. Profit margins are never more important than life itself. 

 May 15 

 The Norman (Okla.) Transcript, on People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals: 

 We haven't seen one in our area yet, but we've been reading about billboards in other places bearing the message, "Jesus was a vegetarian." 

 The latest controversy stirred up by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals gets Christian carnivores riled in just about every city it hits. ... 

 The Bible is mostly silent on what Jesus ate, preferring to focus on what he taught, but it's not entirely silent. We refer the reader to the 24th chapter of Luke, where the risen Jesus appears to the disciples. In verses 41-43 we read, "And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat? And they gave him a piece of broiled fish, and of an honeycomb. And he took it, and did eat before them." Pareve but not vegetarian, unless you consider fish a vegetable. 

 May 15 

 Charleston (W.Va.) Daily Mail, on Million Mom March: 

 The duel between Million Mom March Inc. and Second Amendment Sisters Inc. for the hearts and minds of the American people on Sunday should have been spelled d-u-a-l. 

 Both sides have good ideas about a problem that is still too big to be ignored. ... 

 To hasten the decline of gun deaths, Donna Dees-Thomases, whose sister-in-law is a close friend of Hillary Clinton ... organized a rally to demand new gun laws. ... 

 One proposal would close the loophole regarding background checks for buyers at gun shows. Trigger locks and mandatory gun safety classes are among other proposals. ... 

 To counteract that rally, the Second Sisters were hastily organized. They call for protecting the Second Amendment right to own a gun and for better enforcement of existing laws. ... 

 Some unsolicited advice to the moms and sisters: Emulate Mothers Against Drunk Driving. 

 That means being nonpartisan. That means holding people, not cars or guns, responsible for their actions. That means new laws. That means better enforcement of existing laws. 

 That means working together. 

 May 15 

 American Press of Lake Charles, La., on ecstacy: 

 An illicit drug called ecstacy is pouring into the United States in such quantities that an epidemic is not only possible, but probable. 

 Parents need to talk to their kids about this one, and young people need to know that ecstacy is bad news. ... 

 Ecstacy is popular among young people. Sadly, this is the group that is most vulnerable to the effects of the drug, which produces euphoria and an increased desire to interact socially. ... 

 Blood pressure, heart rate and body temperature increase dramatically. Other physical symptoms include involuntary teeth-grinding. To counter this, some users suck on pacifiers. ... 

 The more parents and teen-agers learn about ecstacy, the better equipped they will be to make sure the answer is "No!" when someone suggests using it. 

 May 15 

 The Plain Dealer of Cleveland, Ohio: 

 The Philadelphia school board has made its district the largest in the country to require students in every school to wear uniforms. The policy change ... is supposed to cut down on distractions and discipline problems. 

 It is true that students are less likely to battle over Nike sneakers at school if they're not wearing them in buildings. It's also true that parents may save money - and students time - if the choice of school clothing is limited to a couple of colors and styles. But as some students and parents pointed out at Philadelphia's school board meeting, blue bottoms and a white top offer no guarantee of academic improvement. 

 Not that uniform policies are a bad idea. But parents and policymakers cannot expect the adoption of uniform regulations to relieve them of their duties toward real education reform. 

 May 9: 

 The Herald-Journal of Spartanburg, S.C., on rejecting the expansion of hate crime laws: 

 The federal government should not be policing the thoughts and attitudes of Americans or taking control of state criminal matters. That's why Congress should resist President Clinton's proposal to expand the federal hate crimes law. ... 

 Hate crimes laws put the government in the unconstitutional role of policing individuals' thoughts and attitudes. ... 

 Laws against hate crimes expand the government's power into our thoughts and attitudes. The federal statute expands the national government's control over state and local law enforcement. The president's proposal should be dropped on both grounds. 

 May 12, 2000 

 Boca Raton (Fla.) News, on gender gap in pay: 

 It is hard to believe it but even in the 21st century, even in boom-times America, women still earn less than men doing the same job. This disturbing news shows that discrimination, despite all our social advances and legislation to stamp it out, dies a hard death. ... 

 This is not only shameful, it is, in many instances illegal. Those employers who indulge in such archaic salary shifting need to understand both the moral and legal peril of what they are doing and be made to pay both penalties if they persist. ... 

 What possible excuse can there be for paying a woman $7.60 an hour to perform the same tasks for which a man is paid $10? 

 One answer is simple but unacceptably trite, it always has been that way. But as times have changed, so, too, has the value of women in the workplace. ... 

 Equal pay for equal work, that is how it must be. 

 May 16 

 The Globe and Mail of Toronto, on Dr. Laura: 

 Laura Schlessinger - a.k.a. Dr. Laura, based on her Ph.D in physiology - has been taken to task by the Canadian Broadcast Standards Council for characterizing homosexuality on her radio show as "deviant," "dysfunctional," "aberrant," "abnormal" and biologically "an error." ... 

 What is most astounding about "Dr. Laura's" proposition is that she clearly missed taking a course in evolutionary biology. Biology is all about deviance. Species arise because variant traits are selected for by the environment. Because you never can tell which traits are going to be selected for, as a general principle, biology favors significant genetic variance in populations. 

 Homosexuality seems to be among the variations favored by nature in humans. We say this because, as far as we can tell, it is found in all cultures and throughout human history, not to mention in other species. It is not average, but neither is being seven feet tall or having red hair or being Einstein. 

 Thus, "Dr. Laura's" central intellectual failure is not that she gives offense to homosexuals, but that she gives offense to biology as it proudly proclaims: Variancy is part of normalcy. Back to school, Ms. Schlessinger. 

 May 17 

 The Guardian of London, on Mideast peace: 

 This week's explosion of violence in the West Bank and Gaza - which (so far) has left three dead, hundreds wounded, and brought direct exchanges of fire between Israeli troops and Palestinian police - is not difficult to explain, though much harder to justify. 

 Promised that the new millennium's opening year would finally bring a lasting settlement, Palestinians have watched with growing frustration as U.S.-expedited "fast-track" talks have reverted to the old, familiar, stop-go two-step. 

 While the outside world focuses on the more salient drama of a Lebanon withdrawal under fire, on the grim harvest of Syria's displeasure, and on a vengeful Hizbullah's vow to pursue its war beyond the pale, the dream of Palestine reborn is again obscured. 

 May 16 

 The Nation of Bangkok, on the death of Obuchi: 

 The vacuum created by the unexpected death of Japanese Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi will be felt throughout Asia, Thailand included, for some tie to come. During his tenure, Obuchi was not only an active visitor to Southeast Asia, but also advanced Japan's recognition in the region. 

 At the height of the economic crisis, when the (Thai) public looked to the United States for assistance, it was Japan that became deeply involved. ... History will show how Japan had offered quickly shore up the Thai economy as it was collapsing, only to be thwarted by the indecision of the then-prime minister, Chavalit Yongchaiyudh. 

 Japan also recognized quickly that the crisis would not be restricted to Thailand, but would become a global capitalism crisis. Obuchi's government moved to launch the Asian Monetary Fund, a vehicle designed to help stabilize the financial crisis. Although the proposal was shot down by the United States and the European Union, it showed that Japan is a reliable friend in times of need. 

 May 17 

 Liberation daily of France, on the price of information: 

 How do journalists cover a hostage crisis of the type unwinding in the Philippines? We can only say it must be done in a "responsible manner." 

 It is impossible to draft a guide telling journalists how to face such a situation: each hostage crisis presents a unique case, as does each journalist and each news organization. 

 It is no longer always the case where newspapers, television and the families of hostages must succumb to the pressure of authorities who urge for silence. Giving them publicity constrains governments to face the situation and to not forget the hostages, for obscure reasons of state. 

 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs recommends that visitors and journalists "refrain from going to the (Philippine) region so as to not complicate the task of those trying to obtain the liberation of the hostages." 

 That's to say, do not make a game of the hostage crisis. To inform doesn't oblige one to participate in morbid sensationalism. 

 May 16 

 Asahi Shimbun of Japan, on Zimbabwe: 

 Zimbabwe became free of white rule and formally gained its independence from Britain 20 years ago. ... 

 Racial conflict has remained on the African continent even after colonization ended. The unlawful occupation of farms has spilled over into Kenya. Even in South Africa, where reappropriation of farmland to black farmers is behind the program, some elements have begun to advocate following the Zimbabwe example. 

 But illegal occupation and other violence only intensified racial conflict. (President Robert) Mugabe must remember the ideals he preached 20 years ago. Racial animosity should not be inflamed for partisan advantage. The farm problem should be resolved through the rule of law. 

 The President must also hold the election as scheduled and seek popular opinion, especially on whether voters support the government's farm occupation. Mugabe should not adopt repressive policies, as typified by his repression of opposition criticism of government. 

 Japan is one of Zimbabwe's largest aid donors. But we cannot continue to provide aid if the nation flouts democracy and the rule of law. The government of Japan should make that policy clear to Mugabe. 

 In turmoil, the poorest always suffer most. 

AP-Editorial-Rdp; D74HDUIO0

Document asp0000020010804dw5h01bjw




 RESEARCH ALERT-Merrill downgrades Coke Enterprises. 

465 words
16 May 2000
17:14
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, May 16 (Reuters) - Merrill Lynch on Tuesday said it had downgraded Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. to neutral from buy and cut its fiscal 2000 and 2001 earnings estimates for the company. 

 - After the stock market close on Monday, the world's largest bottler of Coca-Cola Co. beverages issued a profit warning for fiscal 2000, saying it expects earnings of 50 cents a share, compared with analysts' consensus estimate of 71 cents as compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial, 

 - Merrill lowered its 2000 estimate to a range of 45 to 50 cents from 68 cents, and cut its 2001 estimate to 65 cents from 95 cents. 

 - said the primary reason for its reduction in expectations is that the sharp drop in the euro vs. the pound has resulted in accelerated incidents of transshipping of Coca-Cola products from other European markets into the United Kingdom, adversely impacting CCE's UK volumes. 

 - said that as a result, CCE has had to rescind expected price increases in the UK and step up price promotions. CCE is Coke's sole bottler in the UK. 

 - also said that despite strong April scanner data for the domestic Coca-Cola system, CCE now expects North American volumes to be up 1-2 percent for the remainder of 2000, versus previous expectations of 3-4 percent. 

 - said CCE is continuing to push up its average net selling price at rates substantially ahead of inflation in supermarkets and mass merchants, which is continuing to have an adverse impact on consumer demand. 

 - said aggressive pricing will probably continue into 2001. 

 - said it is reducing its 2000 full-year volume growth forecasts in Europe to 4 to 5 percent versus a previous 5 to 6 percent, and in North America to 0 to 1 percent from a previous 2 to 3 percent. 

 - said EBITDA in 2000 is being reduced by $125 million due to the negative pricing swing in the UK to combat transshipping, lower-than-expected volume growth in the U.S., and modestly reduced demand expectations in the UK, with the first factor by far the biggest. 

 - Merrill said it took $40 million out of expected 2000 EBITDA last week due to the drop in the euro vs. the dollar. 

 - said it retained its long-term buy opinion on company since believes CCE has ample opportunity for further growth in existing markets, plus further opportunities to acquire additional markets as Coca-Cola's consolidator of choice in developed markets. 

 - Shares of Coca-Cola Enterprises were down 7-5/8 at 14-15/16 at midday on the New York Stock Exchange, below the stock's 52-week low of 16-13/16. 

 ((-Lee Daniels, New York Equities Desk, 212-859-1619)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5g00hwn




 UPDATE 2-NEL issues warning as costs rise. 

625 words
16 May 2000
13:04
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SINGAPORE, May 16 (Reuters) - NatSteel Electronics Ltd (NEL), the world's fifth largest electronic contract manufacturer, issued a profit warning on Tuesday as it struggled to pass on rising costs to its customers. 

 The warning came unexpectedly as NEL had said in the past that it would be able to roll over higher costs to customers. 

 NEL's cautious warning was seen likely to spillover into Singapore's other technology stocks, heavily dominated by contract manufacturers such as Venture Manufacturing , JIT Holdings and Omni Industries . 

 NEL had called for a media briefing after Tuesday's market close amid widespread speculation it may announce a secondary listing on Nasdaq. 

 Its shares closed 20 cents higher at S$8.40. 

 But NEL's chief financial officer, Chay Yee Meng, in a conference call with reporters, said this was not the right time to talk about a Nasdaq listing. 

 "This year, in fact our top line on the year-on-year basis grew more than 20 percent, so we are able to solve the top line problem, to get (component) supply," Chay said. 

 "But because of the loss of flexibility, of the short time issued we now have, we see a higher cost issue," he added. 

 COMPONENT SHORTAGES PLAGUE BOTTOMLINE 

 Chay was referring to component shortages which had increased the firm's costs of production. 

 When asked how long component shortage problems would continue, Chester Lin, chief executive officer of NEL, said it would remain tight, probably even until the fourth quarter. 

 "I don't think it's going to be any better," he said. 

 Lin, citing resistors, certain types of memory chips and capacitors among the shortages, said the company could pass on increased costs to its customers in some cases. 

 He said the company was also trying to work with them to share the cost burden. 

 Separately in a statement, NEL blamed the lower earnings estimates to higher interest expenses, lower gross margins due to shortages of "certain critical components", and a major revamp in group infrastructure which used up resources. 

 "Barring any unforeseen developments, the group believes that its consolidated net profit for the year ending December 31, 2000 will be lower than analysts' consensus estimates for the group." 

 Barra's Global Estimates put the company's average net profit for 2000 at S$125 million, up from S$84.35 million in 1999. 

 NEL's statement said it achieved revenue growth of 20 percent in the first three months of this year and expected to maintain this in the second quarter. 

 But it expected net profit for the first half to the end of June to be lower than the previous corresponding period. 

 NEL gave the following reasons for the expected profit shortfall: 

 - Higher interest expenses due to a $250 million convertible bond issue in July last year. 

 This resulted in an interest expense of $8.4 million for the first six months of the year. 

 - It drew $200 million of banking facilities in April to complete the acquisition of NEC America's manufacturing operations in Oregon, USA. 

 - Higher expenses from the amortisation of goodwill and depreciation of additional fixed assets due to the Oregon acquisition. 

 - Lower gross profit margins caused by the shortage of "certain critical components" that resulted in lower capacity utilisation than that of the fourth quarter, and higher materials costs. 

 - Higher usage of resources from its plan to transform its infrastructure into a global supply-chain services provider, from being merely a pure printed circuit board assembler. 

 NEL said it was looking at ways to optimise its capital structure to reduce the interest burden. 

 ((Mantik Kusjanto, Singapore newsroom (65) 8703080 fax: (65) 7768112 singapore.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5g00h8a




 UPDATE1-Coke launches $1 bln U.S. diversity program. 

 By Paul Simao 
743 words
16 May 2000
19:35
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 ATLANTA, May 16 (Reuters) - Coca-Cola Co., embroiled in a bitter discrimination lawsuit with a group of black workers, announced on Tuesday a $1-billion diversity campaign to boost entrepreneurship and other business opportunities for minorities and women in the United States. 

 Atlanta-based Coca-Cola, the world's largest soft drink company, said it would increase spending with minority and female-owned businesses by more than 50 percent to an average of $160 million per year during the next five years. 

 Coca-Cola said it would invest more in local economies and on marketing to strengthen local retailers and entrepreneurs. It also pledged to "foster a climate of entrepreneurial opportunity" through targeted identification of minority suppliers and creation of a supplier mentoring programme. 

 "This is a logical extension of our 'think local, act local' strategy and our desire to become a model citizen in the communities we serve," Coca-Cola Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Douglas Daft said. 

 "The Coca-Cola Co. must continue to strengthen local economies through the way we invest, the way we allocate our procurement dollars, the partners we choose to help us market and distribute our brands and the way we build our system," Daft said. 

 Daft, who has ushered in a wave of decentralization since formally taking over the top Coca-Cola job from Douglas Ivester in February, has highlighted the need for the beverage giant to strengthen grassroots relationships in its roughly 200 markets around the world. 

 Nowhere is that more true than in the United States, where Coca-Cola has been battered by the impact of a lawsuit filed by a group of black former and current employees who allege the company had tolerated a pattern of discrimination in pay, promotions and performance reviews. 

 Coca-Cola, which has denied the charges, said the new diversity programme was not prompted by the lawsuit. Lawyers pressing the suit said Coca-Cola's diversity pledge would not affect their strategy in the case. 

 "I don't think it changes anything. It's a nice thing for them to do, but it doesn't have anything to do with the situation of the current and former employees," said Lamar Mixson, an Atlanta-based attorney involved in the case. 

 Mixson added that the black workers in the lawsuit would ask an Atlanta court to grant class-action status to the case later this month if Coca-Cola did not resolve the lawsuit within the next two weeks. 

 Class-action status could add hundreds of litigants to the case, which is currently under mediation. 

 Mixson would not comment on what kind of settlement would be acceptable to his clients. Last week, a black former employee leading a U.S. boycott of Coca-Cola products said at least $200 million would be necessary to settle the case. 

 The impact of the lawsuit - and concerns about Coca-Cola's growth strategy - have prompted many investors to take a cautious approach to the company's stock. 

 Coca-Cola shares, which traded around $67 a share about one year ago, fell 2-1/4 to 49-11/16 on Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange after at least one brokerage lowered its earnings forecast for the company. 

 U.S. brokerage Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette lowered its earnings per share estimate for Coca-Cola to $1.40 per share from $1.42 in 2000 in response to a profit warning on Monday by Coca-Cola's main bottler, Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises, the world's largest bottler of Coca-Cola, said earnings this year would fall well short of expectations, mainly due to currency-induced weakness in the British market. 

 On Tuesday, Coca-Cola, which owns about 40 percent of the bottler, said its earnings in 2000 would likely be reduced by about one cent per share due to the revised Coca-Cola Enterprises earnings forecast. 

 Analysts had forecast Coca-Cola would earn $1.45 a share this year, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks this data. 

 Coca-Cola also announced on Tuesday that it would spend $1 billion in Africa over the next three years, including $200 million in South Africa alone. The investment would be used to build new plants and fuel acquisitions on the continent. 

 ((Paul Simao, Reuters Atlanta Bureau (404) 327-5787 or email paul.simao@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5g00a0w




 Financial Post Investing 
 Perle slides after profit continues to elude company: Still feeling Y2K pinch 

 Paul Bagnell 
Financial Post
454 words
16 May 2000
National Post
FINP
National
D01 / Front
English
 (c) National Post 2000. All Rights Reserved. 

 Perle Systems Ltd., a stock market star late last year, issued a profit warning yesterday, blaming Y2K-related purchasing delays by customers. 

 Investors reacted by sending Perle shares (PL/TSE) down 75 cents, or 10.7%, to $6.25. 

 Perle develops and sells computer networking hardware used to allow remote users to connect to central servers. Its products can be used with servers running on the Linux operating system, a rival to Microsoft Corp.'s dominant Windows platform. 

 In December, when a U.S. court ruling raised the possibility of a breakup of Microsoft, Perle shares soared along with those of other Linux-oriented companies. Perle, which also makes Windows-compatible products, saw its stock rise to $33.65 from $5.35 in three days. 

 Perle stock soon returned to earth, however, and has been in a slow decline ever since. 

 Yesterday, Toronto-based Perle said it will not make money in the quarter ending on May 31 after all. In late March, when it reported a third-quarter loss, Perle said it would "return to a positive net income" in its fourth quarter, which ends on May 31. 

 Perle blamed its third-quarter loss on "Y2K-related delays in customer projects that use the company's products." Yesterday's warning cited the same problem for the unexpected fourth-quarter loss. 

 "The company attributes the [fourth] quarter's lower than expected sales to continuing follow-on purchase delays related to Y2K, which are having an industry wide impact," it said. 

 Costs associated with the purchase of Chase Research Ltd. also contributed to the loss, it said. 

 Perle said it now expects fourth-quarter revenue to be between US$10.5-million and US$11.5-million, compared to US$16.3-million in fourth quarter 1999. 

 Revenue for the June to May fiscal year will be between US$46.6-million and US$47.6-million, Perle said, versus US$41.6-million in fiscal 1999. 

 In a news release, Joe Perle, chief executive, said he expects the company to return to profitability during fiscal 2001. 

 In contrast to last December's frenzy, shares of Perle and other companies with products or services geared to Linux have barely flinched during the recently intensified speculation that Microsoft could be broken up by court order. 

 Kevin Restivo, a software analyst with International Data Corp. in Toronto, said yesterday companies are still struggling with how to generate revenue on Linux-based products. 

 "It's a very high-end server operating system, so there is a limited number of people who use it. That is limiting revenue right now." 

Document finp000020010805dw5g00b7b




 ANALYSIS-Japan automakers short-changed by euro's slide. 

 By Edwina Gibbs 
913 words
15 May 2000
12:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 TOKYO, May 15 (Reuters) - Ford and Rover grabbed the "European auto industry in crisis" headlines last week, but few automakers are immune from pain in Europe's tough market. 

 Indeed, Japanese automakers with European plants are being battered by a double whammy of exchange rate woes. 

 Not only are their British plants being hit by the pound's strength against the euro - a major factor behind Ford Motor Co's decision to end car assembly at its British plant and BMW AG's virtual giving away of Rover to the Phoenix consortium - but also the euro's weakness against the yen is inflicting further punishment. In a move likely to be repeated by other Japanese automakers, Honda Motor Co said on Friday its European operations - accounting for 11 percent of group sales - showed a 14.5 billion yen ($133.2 million) loss in the year that ended on March 31 and that a further year of losses was probable. 

 "The pound's strength against the euro is a problem, but the euro's weakness against the yen is much more of a problem," said a Honda source, declining to be named. 

 Around half of the 210,000 cars Honda sold in Western Europe last year were exported from Japan and while the euro has slid 15 percent against the pound since its birth in January 1999, it has plunged some 24 percent against the yen. 

 But the euro's performance against the yen means that, unlike Ford and BMW, Japan's second-largest automaker is increasing its commitment to its plant in Swindon, western England, Honda's only car assembly plant in Europe. 

 HONDA MAPS OUT BRITISH EXPORTS 

 Although it will cut output in Swindon this year, Honda plans to begin production of its compact recreational vehicle (CRV) there in June. 

 It is also investing nearly 450 million pounds ($675 million) to produce a new compact car at the same site from next spring. 

 But measures to cope with the pound's strength are needed and Honda said on Friday it was considering exports from Britain to Japan and the United States as one step. 

 It is also trying to sell as many British-made cars as it can in Britain, reducing the need to export to the continent, and may ask suppliers to cut costs, the source said. 

 European woes helped batter Honda's shares, which reversed 11 percent or 500 yen on Monday to 4,100 yen. But rivals including Nissan Motor Co benefited from Honda's loss, traders said. Nissan shares climbed 5.51 percent or 30 yen to 574. 

 Honda's European troubles appear to rule out any renewal of interest in closer ties with Rover despite British media reports that they are in secret talks. Honda President Hiroyuki Yoshino said last week it was not interested in the loss-making company. 

 Japanese automakers are not about to pull the rug from under their UK plants - Britain remains Europe's second-largest car market after Germany - but over time, euro weakness against the pound and the yen will mean some shift to continental Europe. 

 "For Japanese automakers, the euro's weakness is going to confirm and slightly accelerate the trend of more procurement from the Continent and more production there," said Stephen Usher, an analyst at Jardine Fleming Securities. 

 NISSAN MAY PUT BRAKES ON SUNDERLAND 

 Japan's largest automaker Toyota Motor Corp is already on the way. 

 It set off a UK political furore in January 1997 when it said it would shift investment to the Continent if Britain did not join European monetary union. Although it has since expanded investment in Britain, it is building an assembly plant in France and a transmission plant in Poland. 

 Nissan and its French partner Renault SA, which took a 36.8 percent controlling stake in the struggling Japanese automaker last year, are also in the spotlight. 

 The two on Monday unveiled plans to fuse their European sales teams. They have also said they will combine some production and procurement. 

 Analysts say Nissan's plant in Sunderland, Northeast England - ironically reputed to be the most efficient assembly plant in Europe - is unlikely to win the contract to build the new Nissan Micra, due to be produced from 2003. 

 The Micra is now built at Sunderland but its platform will be combined with Renault's Clio and Nissan plants worldwide are competing for the contract. 

 "At current exchange rates, it just doesn't make financial sense to build the Micra at Sunderland," said Nikko Salomon Smith Barney analyst Noriyuki Matsushima. 

 FORD HAS ROOM FOR MAZDA IN EUROPE 

 Another potential mover to continental Europe is Mazda, an affiliate of Ford and which exports more than two-thirds of its domestic production. Looking to prop up its sagging European operations, Ford Europe Chairman Nick Scheele said last week it was talking with Mazda about sharing excess European capacity. 

 This would no doubt be a relief for Mazda, which earlier this year issued a profit warning citing worse-than-expected sales in Europe. 

 But Japan-based analysts note that unless Mazda can convince Ford to spend more to help it develop minivehicles in Japan, any production move to Europe would mean less output at home. 

 And that would be difficult for Mazda, which plays a key role in the economy of Hiroshima, where it is located. ($1=108.83 Yen). 

 . (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5f00eg3




 WRAPUP 1-European shares fall on pre-Fed nerves. 

 By Mark Trevelyan 
645 words
15 May 2000
11:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, May 15 (Reuters) - European shares fell in early trade on Monday on the eve of a Federal Reserve meeting that markets expect to produce the most aggressive U.S. credit tightening in five years. 

 On the currency markets, the euro was holding near Friday's two-week highs against the dollar amid suggestions it may at last be turning the corner. 

 At 0947 GMT the pan-European Eurotop index of 300 shares was down 13.6 points or 0.83 percent at 1,615.91, while the narrower Euro Stoxx index of 50 blue chip euro-zone shares was down 25.94 points or 0.50 percent at 5,212.48. 

 Among leading European blue-chip bourse indices, London's FTSE 100 was down 0.7 percent, Frankfurt's DAX slipped 0.5 percent, and Paris's CAC was off 0.4 percent. 

 June S&P futures were down 4.5 points or 0.31 percent at 1,426.2, indicating a negative start on Wall Street. 

 "We are waiting to see what the Fed does tomorrow evening but the surprise would be if we don't get a half-point rise which is already in the market by now, I would have thought," said David Thwaites, European strategist at BNP Paribas. 

 REUTERS SURVEY ON RATES 

 The latest Reuters survey of 29 top U.S. investment houses on Friday showed 27 of them expect the Federal Reserve to raise rates by half-a-percentage point to 6.5 percent at the pivotal policy meeting on Tuesday. 

 A growing number of them now see the fed funds rate rising to well over 7.0 percent by year-end. 

 If the Fed does hike by half-a-point, it will be the first time since early 1995. More recently it has preferred to move by increments of 25 basis points, but these have done little to hold back runaway economic growth. 

 Techs, telecoms and pharmaceuticals were the worst-hit sectors in Europe. 

 On the pan-European DJ Stoxx 50 index of leading shares, the biggest gainer was French retailer Carrefour, up 1.82 percent. 

 Stocks in retreat were led by telecoms, with France Telecom down 2.16 percent, Nokia down 1.81 percent and Deutsche Telekom off 1.69 percent. 

 In merger news, German leisure and engineering group Preussag AG said Britain's number two tourism group Thomson Travel had recommended its shareholders accept Preussag's 180 pence per share takeover offer. 

 Preussag was off 0.69 percent, while Thomson jumped 6.16 percent. 

 EQUANT PLUNGE CONTINUES 

 French communications network company Equant was down 6.24 percent, extending its hefty losses on Friday amid rumours of an imminent profit warning or loss of major contract. 

 The single European currency was hovering around 91.5 U.S. cents, consolidating its recovery from lifetime lows around 88.4, set on May 4. The likelihood of central bank intervention to support the euro appeared less imminent than it had last week. 

 "Now that we've made this rally, the market will be a bit wary of being left behind because of the uncertainty about whether it represents a turning point, the beginning of a new trend," said Neil MacKinnon, senior currency strategist at Merrill Lynch in London. 

 Traders noted that it was primarily bearish sentiment that had fuelled the euro's recent decline and that it did not take much for a quick correction. 

 Earlier on Monday, Asian sharemarkets fell as investors fretted about Tuesday's Fed meeting. 

 Tokyo's key Nikkei share average lost 0.25 percent to finish at 17,313.69, off its lows. Hurting sentiment were wariness over the Fed and a pessimistic prediction for the year ahead by Honda Motor Corp after its earning results on Friday. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5f00dhv




 RWE 9-Mo Earnings Seen Suffering From Elec Price  Decline 

 By Chris Reiter 
336 words
15 May 2000
16:16
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 BERLIN -(Dow Jones)- Steep cuts in electricity prices are expected to accelerate the decline in RWE AG's (G.RWE) earnings in the third quarter, analysts said. 

 When it releases nine-month earnings data Thursday, the diversified energy company's operating profit is expected to total EUR2.3 billion for the first nine months of its fiscal year. This would reflect a drop of 20% decline in the third quarter compared with the previous quarter. 

 Year-on-year comparisons aren't possible because RWE changed to International Accounting Standards this fiscal year. 

 Profits at the company's energy division, which is leading the overall decline in earnings, are seen falling nearly 40%, said Sal. Oppenheim analyst Frank Rothauge. 

 Exacerbating the impact of lower electricity prices on RWE's results is the inclusion of troubled east German generator Vereinigte Energiewerke AG in RWE's equity income, Merrill Lynch analyst Lynn Reinhardt said in a note. 

 However, there is some light at the end of the tunnel. RWE's sales figures are seen rising 22% to EUR33.8 billion due to improvements at its oil division RWE-Dea and consolidation of U.S. construction company Turner Corp. (X.TUN), which was acquired by RWE-subsidiary Hochtief AG (G.HOT) last year. 

 RWE is also expected to see a boost in net profit because of a EUR2.8 billion gain from the sale of its stake in mobile phone company E-Plus. Some of that gain, however, will be reduced by extraordinary restructuring provisions of EUR1.8 billion. Estimates for net profit weren't available. 

 The sting of the lower energy earnings though is already factored into the company's share price, analysts said. 

 RWE issued a profit warning after its first-half earnings figures. It then said said operating results would decline by as much as 15% over the full year. It had earlier predicted a rise. 

 -By Chris Reiter; +49 30 288 8410 

Document dji0000020010805dw5f02ev4




 Corporate News 
 Kmart Net Fell 61% in First Quarter   

 By Calmetta Y. Coleman   
Staff Reporter
394 words
12 May 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 Kmart Corp. said weak April sales and a loss at its Internet business helped drag first-quarter net income down 61% to $22 million (24.2 million euros), or five cents a diluted share.   

 The decline ended a string of 15 consecutive quarters of profit increases that seemingly had signaled the U.S. discount chain's turnaround.   

 A year earlier, Kmart had net income of $56 million, or 11 cents a diluted share. The latest results matched a First Call/Thomson Financial consensus of analysts' estimates, which had been revised after a profitwarning last week.   

 Late Thursday afternoon, Kmart's stock slipped 6.25 cents to $7.5625 in New York Stock Exchange trading.   

 Total sales for the quarter ending April 26 inched up 1.5% to $8.19 billion from $8.08 billion. Sales at stores open at least a year were flat.   

 While cold, rainy weather in April hurt most retailers, Kmart, based in Michigan, seemed to have problems that went beyond those factors. "Sales were below plan all quarter, not just in April," said Jeff Edelman, an analyst with PaineWebber Inc.   

 Mr. Edelman noted that Kmart's sales increases in previous quarters were chiefly from the conversion of old stores to a larger format called Big K. That new format, which includes food, has been crucial to Kmart's turnaround over the past three years. Now that the conversions have been completed, the sales benefit might be wearing off.   

 Chairman and Chief Executive Floyd Hall attributed the weak sales to fewer price promotions relative to Kmart's competitors. "We are taking steps to regain our sales momentum and remain confident that we can meet or exceed the company's financial plans for the year," he said in a news release.   

 However, Mr. Edelman cut his estimate for the year by five cents to $1.20 a share, saying that Kmart would probably see weaker gross margins as it struggles to compete with other stores on price. The company's gross margin rate for the quarter was 20.8% of sales, compared with 21.1%.   

 The results also reflected Kmart's majority ownership of BlueLight.com. An operating loss at the fledgling electronic-commerce business cost Kmart $11 million, or two cents a share, after taxes.   

Document wsje000020010814dw5c007ru




 Marketing & Media 
 Kmart Reports 61% Drop in Net For First Quarter   

 By Calmetta Y. Coleman   
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
415 words
12 May 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C10
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 Kmart Corp. said fiscal-first-quarter net income fell 61% to $22 million, or five cents a diluted share, dragged down by weak April sales and losses at its Internet business.   

 The decline ended a string of 15 consecutive quarters of profit increases that seemingly had signaled the discount chain's turnaround.   

 In the year-earlier first quarter, Kmart had net income of $56 million, or 11 cents a share. The latest results matched a First Call/Thomson Financial consensus of analysts' estimates, which had been revised after a profit warning last week.   

 Sales for the quarter, which ended April 26, inched up just 1.5% to $8.19 billion from $8.08 billion. Sales at stores open at least a year were flat.   

 At 4 p.m., Kmart was down 12.5 cents to $7.50 in composite New York Stock Exchange trading. The stock is trading near its 52-week low of $7.3125.   

 While cold, rainy weather in April hurt most retailers, Kmart, based in Troy, Mich., seemed to have problems that went beyond those factors. "Sales were below plan all quarter, not just in April," said Jeff Edelman, an analyst with PaineWebber Inc.   

 Mr. Edelman noted that Kmart's sales increases in previous quarters were chiefly from the conversion of old stores to a larger format called Big K. That new format, which includes food, has been crucial to Kmart's turnaround over the past three years. Now that the conversions have been completed, the sales benefit might be wearing off.   

 Chairman and Chief Executive Floyd Hall attributed the weak sales to fewer price promotions relative to its competitors. "We are taking steps to regain our sales momentum and remain confident that we can meet or exceed the company's financial plans for the year," he said.   

 However, Mr. Edelman cut his estimate for the fiscal year by five cents to $1.20 a share, saying that Kmart would likely see weaker gross margins as it struggles to compete with other stores on price. The company's gross margin rate for the quarter was 20.8% of sales, compared with 21.1% a year earlier.   

 The quarter's financial results also reflected Kmart's majority ownership of BlueLight.com. Operating losses at the fledgling e-commerce business cost Kmart $11 million, or two cents a share, after taxes.   

Document j000000020010807dw5c00du3




 UPDATE 4-Gap profits meet lowered expectations. 

 By Nadja Rogoszynski 
665 words
11 May 2000
22:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, May 11 (Reuters) - Casual clothing retailer Gap Inc. on Thursday said its first-quarter earnings rose 23 percent, in line with expectations that the company had lowered after a slow Easter shopping season. 

 San Francisco-based Gap, which sells clothing, accessories and personal care products for men, women and children through its Gap, Banana Republic and Old Navy store chains, said net income rose to $235 million, or 27 cents per share, for the three months ended April 29, from $202 million, or 22 cents, a year before. 

 Total sales rose 20 percent to $2.7 billion from $2.3 billion as the number of stores operated by the company increased by 22 percent year over year, to 3,145. But in a key performance measure, "same-store" sales - stores opened at least a year - fell 2 percent, compared with an 11 percent increase last year. 

 Last week, Gap said first-quarter earnings might come in one or two cents per share lower than analysts had expected because a slow Easter season, when cold, wet weather in many parts of the country held down store traffic at many retailers. After the warning, analysts on average lowered their profit forecasts by a penny to 27 cents a share - an estimate matched by the first-quarter result. 

 Gap shares climbed 2-1/4 to close at 35-5/16 on Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock has been hovering near its year-low of 30-13/16. Its 52-week high was 53-3/4. 

 Gap said it was comfortable with the second-quarter consensus estimate, currently at 26 cents a share. That compares with a profit of 22 cents a year earlier. 

 The retailer added that it expected percentage growth in same-store sales to be around the low single-digit range for the second quarter and perhaps a little higher for the full fiscal year. 

 "We continue to face very difficult comparisons in the second quarter, especially in Old Navy, Banana and international," said Heidi Kunz, chief financial officer, said during a conference call. 

 In the first quarter, the sales stumble was particularly striking for the lower-priced Old Navy chain. Its same-store sales contracted by a "low single-digit" percentage, compared with a "low-20s" percentage gain a year earlier. Same-store sales in Gap-brand outlets in the United States also contracted, while Banana Republic showed growth. 

 On Thursday, the U.S. government said retail sales across the country fell 0.2 percent in April, the first decline in almost two years. Economists had expected a gain of 0.4 percent and said the data indicated that recent increases in borrowing costs may have started to cool off the economy. 

 At Gap Inc., inventory levels at the end of the first quarter were 38 percent higher at $1.6 billion from the year earlier. 

 "We ended the quarter a bit higher than planned from an inventory point of view," Kunz said. "Our inventory was purchased to support a more robust Easter season. Despite aggressive markdowns, we are still entering the next quarter with some residual merchandise, which will be clearing through in May." 

 Analysts welcomed the company's plans to step up efforts to capture more of the "business casual" market, especially for men's clothing, a segment that has lagged the company's women's line. 

 "I thought it was pretty positive that the core Gap division is going more after the business casual customer," said Kindra Hix, analyst at Banc of America Securities. 

 "They haven't been growing the men's business as effectively as its women's. But with the 'casualization' trend on Wall Street, they have the opportunity to go after that market, and step up some of their promotional efforts, particularly in fall 2000," said Richard Jaffe, analyst at PaineWebber. 

 ((Nadja Rogoszynski-New York Newsdesk (212) 859-1700)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5b00lx0




 PacDun sparks. 

 By KATE NASH. 
451 words
11 May 2000
Adelaide Advertiser
ADVTSR
41
English
(c) 2000 Advertiser Newspapers Limited

 Batteries division finally sold in US for $630m 

 SHARES in underperforming conglomerate Pacific Dunlop soared 9 per cent yesterday adding $144 million to the firm's value on news it had finally offloaded its GNB Batteries business. The sale was part of a major restructure, which will include a capital return to shareholders. 

 The share price of the struggling diversified manufacturer has been in a steady decline for the past two years but yesterday rose 14c to $1.57, before closing at $1.53. 

 The key plank in PacDun's asset and capital reorganisation is the $630 million sale of GNB Batteries to Exide Corp of the US, the world's biggest maker of automotive and lead acid batteries. 

 The deal will see Exide pay $570 million cash and four million Exide shares for the business, which PacDun failed to unload in June when a Texas-based buyer did not complete the $750 million contract. 

 That sale's collapse, combined with the decision in March to abort a float of 20 per cent of PacDun's jewel-in-the-crown Ansell division, have combined to help the company's shares plumb new depths. 

 The boost to PacDun's share price was achieved despite news that the GNB sale would lead to a further $160 million write-down and a warning that pre-abnormal profit for the six months to June 30 would be lower than the $75 million posted in the first half. 

 Other elements of yesterday's overhaul include the possible sale of PacDun's electrical distribution business, a shared services joint venture with Andersen Consulting, a restructure of the company's supply chain operations and a capital return to shareholders at the end of its asset sales program. 

 PacDun's managing director Rod Chadwick yesterday welcomed the GNB sale, the result of "several months of negotiations." 

 "It represents the sale of a non-core business and replaces it with cash and an equity investment that can be better used to the advantage of shareholders," he said. 

 Tenders for the electrical business, which had annual sales of more than $800 million, would be sought from the end of this month, he said. 

 While no decision had been made on how capital would be returned to shareholders, a share buyback would not be ruled out. 

 The 50:50 shared services joint venture with Andersen was expected to remove $15 million of costs annually through the provision of business support and information technology services. 

 Mr Chadwick said he was confident PacDun's profit and revenues would be higher next year and that there were plenty of opportunities for growth and cost-cutting. 

 (C) 2000 Advertiser Newspapers Limited. 

Document advtsr0020010803dw5b00nf4




 POLL-Japan auto profits seen hit by yen, domestic slump. 

 By Edwina Gibbs 
967 words
10 May 2000
08:57
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 TOKYO, May 10 (Reuters) - A robust yen and weak markets at home and in Europe are expected to weigh on Japanese automakers' earnings for the business year ended on March 31, analysts say. 

 Japan's currency strengthened to an average of 113.84 yen to the dollar during the last business year against 118 yen a year earlier, reducing the yen-based value of income earned abroad. Analysts say they expect further yen strength to dampen profits again this business year and they will be keeping a keen eye open for signs the booming U.S. market may soon hit its peak. 

 Japan's auto market is expected to make a modest recovery this year but a weak euro will mean Europe, a highly competitive market, will prove difficult for makers without factories there. Following are consensus 1999/00 earnings estimates for major Japanese automakers and outlooks for the year ahead. 

 All earnings forecasts are on a consolidated basis for the year ended on March 31, 2000. Operating profit forecasts are from First Call/Thomson Financial while net profit forecasts are from a Reuters poll of five analysts. 

 TOYOTA MOTOR CORP will announce earnings on May 17 at 3 p.m. (0600 GMT). 

 Analysts say Japan's largest automaker is doing everything right with its auto business but the stronger yen and a weak domestic market will likely result in a drop in operating profit. Group operating profit is likely to fall 8.4 percent to 709 billion yen ($6.49 billion). Net profit estimates ranged from 380 billion to 418 billion yen, up from 356 billion yen a year ago. 

 Toyota is expected to continue to rack up strong sales in all main markets but some say incentives used to gain market share could hurt income. "Incentives and depreciation costs could be a drag on earnings in the short-term," said Howard Smith at ING Baring Securities. Opinions differ greatly on Toyota's share price. Some say a jump to more than 5,300 yen from around 4,000 yen last December has gone too far. Others argue that, although the upside is limited, Toyota deserves the premium given its growing volumes and Internet/telecoms strategy. 

 HONDA MOTOR CO will announce earnings on May 12 at 3 p.m. (0600 GMT). 

 With around 80 percent of its operating profit said to come from the U.S. market, including exports, Honda is one of the most vulnerable Japanese firms to the effects of a stronger yen. 

 Consolidated operating profit is expected to have slipped by one-fifth to 431 billion yen. For net profit, Honda has forecast an 18 percent drop to 250 billion yen and analysts' predictions ranged from 244 billion yen to 267 billion yen. 

 The U.S. market's strength and the yen's appreciation this year will be key factors affecting Honda's share price, seen by many analysts as close to fairly valued at about 4,300 yen. 

 Honda said in October it expected U.S. industry-wide sales to decline by five to 10 percent in 2000, although some recent industry forecasts expect another record year, after U.S. light vehicle sales hit a record of 16.9 million units in 1999. 

 NISSAN MOTOR CO will announce earnings on May 19 at 3 p.m. (0600 GMT). 

 Nissan, 36.8 percent owned by French automaker Renault SA PA), has said it will post massive extraordinary losses in 1999/00 in connection with its three-year restructuring plan. 

 It also issued a profit warning in February, citing poor sales in the domestic market. Analysts say its Japanese and European operations are expected to show a loss, while most if not all of its operating profit will come from the United States. 

 Group operating profit was seen at 46 billion yen while analysts' projections put Nissan's group net loss between 630 billion and 650 billion yen. 

 The outlook for its share price, now around 510 yen, is expected to depend on the pace of restructuring and the reception of four new models due to be launched this business year. 

 MITSUBISHI MOTORS will announce earnings on May 25 at 1 p.m. (0400 GMT). 

 Mitsubishi found a much-needed partner in DaimlerChrysler AG, which in March agreed to buy a 34 percent stake, but the domestic truck market remains depressed and its passenger cars have put in a lacklustre sales performance. 

 Group operating profit is expected to come in at 40 billion yen, compared with 55.9 billion yen a year earlier. It is seen posting a net loss between 17 billion yen and 42 billion yen. 

 Many details of the alliance with DaimlerChrysler are still up in the air and its share price is likely to respond to signs of how much say DaimlerChrysler has in cost-cutting efforts. 

 Its shares were trading just under 400 yen on Wednesday. MAZDA MOTOR CORP will announce earnings on May 19 at 10:30 a.m. (0130 GMT). 

 Exporting some two-thirds of the vehicles it produces in Japan, Mazda has been battered by the strength of the yen and weak sales in Europe. 

 The company, in which Ford Motor Co holds a controlling minority stake, lowered its net profit estimate to 25 billion yen from 40 billion yen, in line with analysts' forecasts, although they say sales of shareholdings will boost its bottom line. 

 Operating profit is also expected to be around 25 billion yen. Its share price has fallen from around 560 yen last December to about 350 yen and analysts say the outlook for the company will depend heavily on currency movements and how it differentiates its products from Ford's. ($1=109.33 Yen). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5a00w2t


 WILL THE CHINESE CYBER-BUBBLE BURST? 

 By Zeng Min 
1,065 words
9 May 2000
Shanghai Star
SHGSTR
English
(c) 2000

 BDA China, a Beijing-based Internet consultant, predicts China's cyberspace community will outstrip the US to become the largest Internet populace in the world by 2005. Its netizen population is doubling every six months and is expected to exceed the 10 million mark by the end of this year. The domestic Internet landscape now comprises more than 1,500 websites and 300-plus Internet service providers in total with new websites being set up at break-neck speeds: on average, two new start-ups every day. Streets, buses, TV, radio and the subway all carry adverts for on-line services. From Sohu.com's red fox tail logo and Sina.com's golden eye, to Netease.com's boy surfing on a mouth-shaped pedal, the icons of the Internet age are now familiar to most. Even in local vegetable markets, the subject of the Internet has crept into roadside conversations. Li, a 60-year-old grandmother, stopped to chat to me about commercial ads for websites in buying her greens. 

  'I think the fox tail is very cute with fox footprints around it. My grandson is now on-line every day and I wish I could join him.' No dough But with memories of the 1997 Asian financial crisis and the decline of the property market in 1995 still fresh, many people are asking whether the cyber-bubble is about to burst. There is no quick answer to this question, but analysts tracking China's Internet development are warning too much speculation in the cyber sector may damage the nascent industry. 'Confidence in the web has become a bubble close to bursting; if there is no correction, the boom will evaporate,' said Yu Mengfei, a local Internet analyst and journalist. Many of China's on-line start-ups have stars in their eyes. They have watched the meteoric rise of Yahoo!, Amazon, eBay and Microsoft and, blinded by their success, are convinced they too can make big bucks overnight. Their focus has shifted from cautious and comprehensive business plans for long-term growth to short-term gain. Many websites are just setting up a platform, and then sitting back and waiting for an influx of venture capital from abroad. 'They set up a website and take it for granted that they can attract big investment and get rich overnight. They don't think about the high risks. A start-up needs hard work and long-term planning to make profits. The process needs investment, talented staff and good management,' said Yu. Even such big names as Sohu.com, Sina.com and Netease.com are not yet turning a profit. And venture capitalists are not interested in websites that have no real growth prospects or likelihood of long-term profits. Analysts say the recent crash in high-tech stocks, principally on the New York-based Nasdaq, will act as a market correction. Venture capitalists will be more careful about which websites they invest in. Dotcoms without solid operating bases and real profits will fall by the wayside. But the volatility of stock will dampen prospects for China dotcoms wishing to float on the Nasdaq. An overseas Initial Public Offering (IPO) has helped many dotcoms to the cash they badly needed for future development. Cash-flow problems have seen many websites, especially the small ones, go under. 'Lack of venture capital and spending all seed funds on ads and other commercial promotions have put paid to many small websites. Many websites that were once the talk of the town in Shanghai are now obsolete,' said Andy Cheung, partner of Arthur Andersen's Shanghai Branch. Jumping the bandwagon Funding is not the only problem. 

 As new websites are quick to join the fray, competition gets cutthroat and on-line companies face the challenge of trying to hold onto fickle subscribers. But many of these cyber companies have little to offer except ideas they have copied from other sites. Most portals - broad-based Internet content providers, and ICPs - offer the usual news coverage, financial forecasts, software download, virtual communities, search engines and free mail services. Few of them offer scoops or exclusive reports. Most either carry news already covered by traditional media like newspapers and TV or just copy other websites. 'They lack their own ideas. Duplicate and redundant sites abound. These will scare surfers away,' said Andy Cheung. Poor management Most chief executive officers (CEOs) of China's dotcoms are young, aged between 20 and 30, and, according to Yu, have little management experience. 'When they start out with less than 100 employees, young CEOs make good, flexible bosses. But when the firm grows, with its workforce hitting 200 or more, the inexperience of their CEOs becomes a big concern,' said Yu. Boards of management tend to lack clear or far-sighted vision in terms of business operation and expansion. They also lack a strong corporate system. 'When more employees join, management can start to lose its grip,' said Andy Cheung. Teething problems But while analysts acknowledge these teething problems, none of them deny the potential of the Internet. 'The Internet will definitely power China's economic growth in future. That is a trend that cannot be reversed,' said Cai Minyong, president of Shanghai Technology Stock Exchange House. Cai cited economic development in the United States. The new net economy has created more than 1.2 million jobs and the wealth it has generated is almost equivalent to that generated by the US automobile industry over the last 100 years. It's possible the recent stock market crash will be a blessing in disguise for China's Internet sector, letting the weak die and the strong live on. 'The battered community of website companies will get stronger after the market correction,' said Yu. But analysts say the government needs to play a more active role in the process. 'Regulations and laws should be put in place to ensure healthy growth of the Internet industry,' said Cai. They say preferential policies should be formulated for net firms, such as establishing venture capital companies inside China to provide cash for promising dotcoms in need of funding. The Chinese authorities have already decided to set up a Nasdaq-like stock market, offering medium and small players another channel for raising money. This high-tech bourse will open late this year. 

Document shgstr0020010817dw59000rb


 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,449 words
9 May 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: Investors stay on the sidelines in a quiet day of trading, waiting to see what the Federal Reserve will do next week on interest rates. The Dow falls about 67 points; the NASDAQ loses 84. Good evening everyone. I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. 

 PAUL KANGAS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Paul Kangas in Miami. Two technology companies making news tonight: Cisco Systems (CSCO) beats the Street with after-the-bell earnings news, and IBM (IBM) meets face-to-face with analysts. Then, an extraordinary show of political prowess in Washington, DC, today. We`ll tell you why the big guns were rolled out. 

 KANGAS: Good evening, everyone. So much for that negative "Barron`s" article. Cisco Systems earnings beat the Street late today after the close of trading, posting a 55 percent gain in revenues. The world`s largest maker of networking equipment announced fiscal third-quarter earnings of $0.14 a share, a penny better than estimates, its ninth straight quarter that Cisco has beat estimates by one cent. In a conference call with analysts, Cisco CEO John Chambers said business and government leaders around the world are moving from traditional business models to an Internet economy model, and are turning to Cisco for help in that transformation. Cisco shares closed the day unchanged at 62 3/4, and were little changed in after hours trading, maybe up about a half a point. Meanwhile, the SEC is now investigating possible insider trading in shares of ArrowPoint Communications (ARPT) ahead of its takeover by Cisco. ArrowPoint stock jumped 27 percent last Thursday, a day before the $5.5 billion deal was announced. A possible Cisco deal was the talk of Internet chat rooms last week, also a leading telecom analyst came out with a positive comments on ArrowPoint that same day. 

 GHARIB: Well, besides Cisco, big blue sent out a big message to top analysts late this afternoon at its once-a-year exclusive meeting in New York City. IBM Chairman Lou Gerstner said that the company is on track for a sizzling summer. IBM`s revenues have fallen, and the stock has been under pressure, but now Gerstner says that feels "very good about this year." I talked with one analyst who attended that meeting and asked what was Gerstner`s message to the Wall Street crowd. 

 MEGAN GRAHAM-HACKETT, COMPUTER ANALYST, S&P EQUITY GROUP: His message is that the business model hasn`t changed. He`s very optimistic going forward on the potential to hit high single revenue growth, high single digit revenue growth and double-digit earnings growth going forward. Very solidly well positioned to benefit from the new opportunities from the Internet economy. 

 GHARIB: I gather this is what a lot of analysts wanted to hear, that they were going to get this revenue and earnings growth after back-to-back quarters that have not delivered. Do you think that Gerstner can really deliver on that message? 

 HACKETT: I think he and his well-organized team can deliver on this message. I think that they have done a lot in the functionality of certain product lines and sales force initiatives they`ve had where they`ve had a very strong positioning to offer solutions, and not every company can offer their complete product solution that IBM can. 

 GHARIB: What kind of timetable did he give? 

 HACKETT: He said that they`re looking for very strong results in the second half of the year. 

 GHARIB: Now, you have a buy on the stock. You are targeting 135 to 150. It`s 109 now. It moved up very slightly in after-hours trading. What do you think the reaction is going to be tomorrow and going forward for this stock? 

 HACKETT: I think basically you will see a general move upward. It`s against the backdrop of what happens in the overall NASDAQ, but I think it was a very positive message. I think they addressed some of the-a lot of the concerns and actually singled out the areas that they`ve been gaining momentum and are actually going to identify real revenue opportunities in the near term that people hadn`t really expected before. 

 GHARIB: All right. You sound very positive, but what mood did you gather from your fellow analysts, from that whole Wall Street crowd? Do you think that they came away reassured as well? 

 HACKETT: I think there`s a current of underlying assurance. There wasn`t a kind of jump off the seat kind of response, but that`s to be expected, given the stock price and some of the challenges ahead. But I do think that overall there`s a much more confident feeling in the plan going forward and the results of IBM in the second half. 

 GHARIB: What would you say is the number one top challenge for IBM? What did Gerstner address today? 

 HACKETT: I think he really singled out the commercial desk-top area as an area that they need to actually become profitable. And they have worked along that path, but need to do a better job going forward. 

 GHARIB: Megan, any surprises that came out of this very highly anticipated meeting that all of you analysts wait for every year? 

 HACKETT: I think the biggest surprise was the fact that he singled out IBM`s role and services and software, leveraging off the needs for integration and how complex the actual network economy has become. They singled out, they`re focused on application developers and bearing their middle wear product and the potential to provide services and hardware through that partnership and what that means is the next generation fills out, how IBM rides that wave. 

 GHARIB: So what`s the next thing that you`re going to be watching for? What`s going to be the tell-tale sign that you`re going to hit those targets on stock? 

 HACKETT: Well they did say that Y2K is behind them. They still have some non-performing areas that they`re unwinding. So really to see some traction in the second quarter and that continued optimism for the second half. 

 GHARIB: All right. Thank you very much, Megan, for briefing us. We really appreciate it. 

 HACKETT: Certainly, Susie. Thank you. 

 KANGAS: Stocks on Wall Street opened moderately higher today with slightly better-than-expected earnings from Wal*Mart (WMT), and an upgrade on Coca-Cola (KO) by Goldman Sachs (GS), helping the Dow Industrial Average follow through on yesterday`s 25-point closing gain with a 78-point advance at 10:30 a.m. The NASDAQ Index jumped some 32 points at the outset in a technical rebound from yesterday`s 144-point decline, but by 10:30 renewed selling in technology stocks sent it to a 50-point loss. Undercut by very slow trading activity amid growing caution ahead of next week`s Federal Reserve meeting on interest rates, stocks went into a slow downward spiral for the rest of the morning, and into early afternoon with little news to influence investors. At 2:00 p.m. the Industrial Average posted a 63-point loss, and the NASDAQ Index was down 117 points. Except for some improvement in the technology sector, the market mostly marched in place for rest of the day. The Dow Industrial Average closed with a loss 66.88 points, at 10,536.75. In today`s 171-point trading range, the Industrial average closed down 148 points from the best level of the session. The NASDAQ Composite fell 84.37 ending at 3585.01. In its 168-point trading range, the Composite settled 123 3/4 points below its best level of the day. 

 Big board volume a little higher than yesterday which was the slowest trading day of the year, but still by recent standards pretty low at 900 million shares and down volume exceeded up volume by a little more than a 5 to 4 margin. 

 The Dow Transport Index down nearly 31 3/4 points. 

 Utilitiy Index fell almost 2 points. 

 The Closing Tick slightly bullish at +163. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 fell just over 12 points. 

 Just over a 5 3/4 point drop in the 100. 

 MidCap 400 off just over 3 1/2 points. 

 And the Bridge Futures Price Index moved up 1.41. 

 New York Stock Exchange Composite losing just a hair over 4 points. 

 Just over a 2 point drop in the Value Line. 

 Russell2000 Small Cap Index fell almost 9 1/4 points. 

 And the broadly based Wilshire 5000 down just about 145 points. 

 The bond market broke a 6 session losing streak today as some investors decided to buy and lock in some pretty attractive yields, even though San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President Robert Perry seemed to signal that a 1/2 point rate hike next week shouldn`t be surprising. The Treasury`s $12 billion auction of 5-year notes went fairly well with a yield of 6.78 percent. That is the highest level in 5 years for 5-year notes. Even so, tax free and corporates rose 1/8 to 1/4 of a point on average and the Treasury market closed nearly higher across the board. 

 5-year notes up 3/32. 

 10-year notes up 8/32 with a yield at 6.52 percent. 

 And the 30-year bond up 15/32. 

 And finally the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index was up 5 2/3 points. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Susie. 

 GHARIB: Paul, BellSouth (BLS) is taking to the skies. The local phone company has a deal with GE Americom to provide satellite television services to customers in the southeastern United States. Bell South expects the alliance to generate about $3 billion in annual revenue. The company says that the new satellite service will increase competition for local cable companies. Well, meanwhile, Direct TV is getting ready for more competition. The satellite TV provider is teaming up with Blockbuster (BBI), the video rental chain, in a strategic marketing deal. Blockbuster will sell Direct TV equipment and services in its stores. In return, Direct TV will offer Blockbuster`s movie to its customers. The companies will also launch a co-branded Pay-Per-View movie service. Blockbuster expects the deal to add 5 to 15 percent in cash earnings growth beginning next year. Well, investors liked the picture. The stock of Hughes Electronics, which is parent of Direct TV, rose 1 9/16 to 89 3/4 and Blockbuster gained a half a point, to 10 11/16. 

 KANGAS: Tomorrow Microsoft will file its legal response to the Justice Department`s plan to break the company in two. It`s the latest move in the ongoing anti-trust trial. As Stephanie Woods reports, Microsoft is in the difficult position of offering a remedy while still claiming it has done nothing wrong. 

 STEPHANIE WOODS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Sources say Microsoft will propose fully disclosing the technical code, called the application programming interfaces. Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson found withholding that code anti-competitive. 

 PAUL ROTHSTEIN, MICROSOFT CONSULTANT, GEORGETOWN LAW PROFESSOR: To have the judge listen to them at all, they have to do something that addresses the judge`s concern and is not considered to be a piece of cake by the judge. Otherwise the judge will reject Microsoft`s proposals if he thinks they`re just putting in a piece of cake for themselves here. 

 BILL GATES, CHAIRMAN, MICROSOFT: Now our goal at Microsoft is to create the next generation of software. 

 WOODS: Microsoft has stepped up its efforts to win favor in the court of public opinion. Beginning here, in an exclusive interview with NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT on April 25th, Chairman Bill Gates first said dividing the applications and Windows business would hurt consumers, a message he is repeating as tomorrow`s filing draws closer. 

 GATES: If we didn`t have Office and Windows and those groups working together thinking about users, there would be no Windows as we know it today. There wouldn`t be the PC environment that we have right now. 

 WOODS: But that`s different than what the company said throughout the trial. Microsoft said it made its software code available to all software application writers and didn`t favor its internal operators. Bob Litan worked at the Justice Department when the original complaint against Microsoft was brought. He says Microsoft can`t have it both ways. 

 ROBERT LITAN, ECONOMIC STUDIES DIR., BROOKINGS INSTITUTION: If it`s true that they were timely, telling everyone what their application interfaces were and are, then everyone`s on equal footing and the economy will suffer no great loss if the company is split up. 

 WOODS: Many observers expect there will be a mini trial of sorts on breaking up the company, with expert witnesses called to testify. The arguments already are being fought as both sides jockey for public support. Stephanie Woods, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 KANGAS: Well, it was kind of an early summer doldrums type market today. The Dow ended up with a loss of 67 points or nearly so, and the broader market definitely lower. Just about 300 more decliners than advancers, 51 new yearly highs as against 72 new lows. 

 AT&T (T) topped the active list on 21.4 million shares, edging up 5/8. The FCC chairman, incidentally, said AT&T`s merger with Media One should be approved in a matter of days. 

 AT&T Wireless (AWE) almost back to its $29.50 offering price back on April 27th. 

 GE (GE) fell 1/2 That`s the 3 for 1 spilt stock, of course. 

 Compaq Computer (CPO) down nearly a 1 point. 

 And Pfizer (PFE) giving back a good part of the 1 3/8 point gain yesterday when Lehman came out with a "buy." 

 Coca Cola (KO) moved up 2 1/16. The good news there, Goldman Sachs added it to its "recommended" list. 

 Nortel Network (NT) dropping 2 points. 

 America Online (AOL) edged up 13/16. 

 And then Computer Associates (CA) down another 3/4. Yesterday it dropped over 6 on the company`s decision to delay by one week its quarterly results. They won`t be out now until the 18th of the month. 

 And then Wal-Mart (WMT), 10th in volume, moved up a 1 point. First quarter earnings for Wal-Mart came in at $0.30, $0.01 better than the Street was expecting and well up from last year`s $0.20. Total sales were up 24 percent. Merrill Lynch increased 2000 earnings estimates by $0.02 to $1.49 a share for Wal-Mart. 

 Ace Limited (SCL), the big insurance company, up 1 9/16. First quarter operating earnings were $0.58, a penny better than the Street was expecting, and the company had sharply higher gross premiums written. 

 American Express (AXP) yesterday`s biggest point gainer on the Dow, today`s biggest point loser. This is what I mean by a treading water market. 

 Computer Sciences (CSC) was up 2 1/16. Fourth quarter earnings came in at $0.84, up from $0.72 last year and Soundview Financial Brokerage upgraded the stock from "buy" to a "strong buy." Standard & Poor`s repeated a "buy." 

 General Motors (GM) was the big point gainer in the Dow Industrial Average, up 2 5/16. 

 Sony (SNE) down nearly 6 points. There`s a management shakeup in the top ranks. Instead of five senior managers to the company there`ll now be three. 

 And then Tandy (TAN) losing 4 1/16. PaineWebber has dropped it from the highlighted stock list of the brokerage. 

 BOC Group (BOX), this company`s involved in industrial gases and the stock shoots up 9 3/8 today. There`s growing optimism that U.S. regulators will approve the company`s takeover by the American company, American Air Products and Chemicals and then France`s company, Le Liquid . 

 Sola International (SOL) was up 1 3/16. Sun Trust Brokerage upgraded it from "attractive" to "buy" today. 

 PC Holdings (PC) rising 1 1/2, Argentine company. First quarter earnings came in at $48 million on the bottom line. That was $9 million more than estimates. 

 And Central Parking (CPC) up 2 7/16. Second quarter earnings nicely higher, $0.27, up from $0.20 last year despite flat revenues. 

 Finova Group (FNV) tumbling 3 1/2 points. The company has retained First Boston to evaluate certain strategic alternatives but Salomon Smith Barney downgraded the stock from "outperform" just to "neutral." And finally, Global TeleSystems Group (GTS) off 1 3/4. A bigger loss this year in the first quarter than last year, -82 versus -61 as higher costs offset a 47 percent increase in revenues. 

 NASDAQ trading, a loss of 84 1/3 points. Trading volume up 313 million shares from yesterday. Thirteen stocks up for every 26 down. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) topped the active list, no change, but in after hours trading, as we`ve mentioned, the stock I saw at 63 1/4. 

 Maxim Integrated (MXIM) tumbling 7 and a large fraction. After the close of trading today the stock was added to the Standard & Poor`s 500, replacing Jostens (JOS) but the stock had run up in anticipation so some profit taking there. 

 Intel (INTC) down 11/16. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) dropped 2 today. 

 Sun Microsystems (SUNW) losing 3 1/4, fifth in volume. 

 Applied Materials (AMAT) off 5 1/16. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) fell 2 9/16. 

 Oracle (ORCL) at 72 was down 5/16. 

 At Home (ATHM) gained 2 7/16. The company denied rumors, however, that it had received a takeover bid from Comcast (CCZ), denied that. 

 Qualcomm (QCOM) was up 2 points, 10th in volume. 

 Xicor (XICO) tumbled 11 11/16 after the company issued a second quarter profit warning. That company president also resigned. 

 Network Plus (NPLS) -3 11/16 today, first quarter loss $0.30, much bigger than last year`s loss of $0.11. 

 And QLogic (QLGC) tumbling 12 13/16. Yesterday the company said it`s going to buy Anchor Communications. Today Prudential cut 2001 earnings estimates by 6/10, down to $0.90 a share. 

 The American Exchange Index off 1.88. 

 Boundless (BND) the big percentage gainer, rising 1 7/8. No one at the company available to comment and nothing on the news wires. 

 And Medtox Scientific (TOX) down 1 1/8. That was the biggest percentage loser. That`s got to be just profit taking because the stock has recently had a sharp run up. 

 And finally, the Index Shares all on the minus side, especially the NASDAQ Qs, down 2 19/32. 

 That`s the Wall Street Wrap Up. Susie? 

 GHARIB: Thanks, Paul. President Clinton says it`s the most important vote of year for Congress, the China trade bill. It`s also an important vote for investors who are looking for signs that the U.S. might be backing away from a free trade agenda. As Darren Gersh reports, both sides of the issue brought out the star power today. 

 DARREN GERSH, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: At the White House, it was a potent display of support from what can only be described as the establishment-governors, CEOs, three secretaries of state and three presidents, all warning a vote against granting China permanent trading rights with the United States would be catastrophic. 

 PRESIDENT GERALD FORD: Disastrous to American agriculture, electronics, telecommunications, autos and countless other products and services. 

 GERSH: On Capitol Hill, critics of trade with China brought out their own star power. 

 GOLDIE HAWN, ACTRESS: I want my Congresspeople to be able to look at this every year and review the human rights issues that are going on in China. I think it`s vitally important for our own integrity. 

 GERSH: As a condition of entering the World Trade Organization later this year, China has agreed to slash trade barriers and open its markets to foreign goods. The president said that openness will strengthen the hand of China`s reformers and he says it`s the hard-liners in Beijing who are hoping Congress virus no. 

 WILLIAM J. CLINTON, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Who`s against it in China? The people that run the state owned industries and don`t want to give up their control, the more conservative elements of the military who would like to have greater tensions between ourselves and them. 

 GERSH: Presidents since Jimmy Carter have been arguing the U.S. must engage China if it is to have any influence there. 

 PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER: But there`s no doubt in my mind that a negative vote on this issue in the Congress will be a serious setback and impediment for the further democratization, freedom and human rights in China. 

 GERSH: But critics say that`s not how prominent Chinese dissidents see it. 

 REP. DAVID BONIOR, MINORITY WHIP: We are with Wei Jin Jang, we are with Harry Wu, we are with the tens of thousands of people who are imprisoned and jailed in China today. We are not with a government that is an authoritarian, brutal police state. 

 GERSH: The president calls the China trade vote flypaper, attracting every concern out the about the global economy, which may explain why the White House isn`t certain yet whether they have the votes needed to win. Darren Gersh, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 KANGAS: Tomorrow, saving money when you buy mutual funds. 

 GHARIB: Abercrombie and Fitch (ANF) says its revenues are looking good. It posted first quarter profits today up around 20 percent. The clothing retailer which in recent years has become popular with teens and college aged kids reported earnings of $0.16 a share, which was right in line with estimates, which analysts had revised on Friday from $0.17 a share. Abercrombie stock closed up 3/8 today to 12 1/4. 

 KANGAS: A proposed law could prevent the tax man from taking a cut if your employer gives you a computer. Two Congressmen, one a republican, one a democrat, are introducing legislation to keep the IRS from taxing free computers or Internet service as income. Several major companies have already announced computer giveaways, but others are waiting until the IRS announces its policy. 

 GHARIB: Relationships are important things. Take, for example, the relationship between interest rates and stock prices. Tonight`s commentator has done just that. Here`s Irving R. Levine, dean of international studies at Lynn University and former chief economics correspondent for NBC News. 

 IRVING R. LEVINE: Remember the old song with the lyrics, horse and carriage, love and marriage, you can`t have one without the other? These words come to mind because of the Fed meeting next week, which is expected to raise interest rates again. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan insists that the Fed raises rates only for the purpose of heading off inflation. He claims that the rate increases are not aimed at forcing down stock prices. But the fact is, as the old song goes, you can`t have one without the other. Greenspan himself points out that soaring stock prices make investors feel wealthy. This wealth effect leads people to spend too freely, creating a threat of inflation. Of course, the way to make people spend less is to make them feel less wealthy. And the way to make people feel less wealthy is to force stock prices down. And the way to force stock prices down is to keep raising interest rates. That`s because higher interest rates raise the costs of borrowing money, which cuts into corporate profits and ultimately hits stock prices, which is precisely what the Fed appears to have in mind. Higher interest rates and lower stock prices, like the old song says, you can`t have one without the other. I am Irving R. Levine. 

 KANGAS: Recapping today`s market action, red ink on Wall Street. The Dow fell over 66 points and the NASDAQ Index lost 84 1/2. And please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: NBR. 

 GHARIB: And finally, the biggest lottery jackpot in U.S. history grew to $350 million today. Lottery directors in the seven states involved in the Big Game pumped up the pot this morning. So just how big is the jackpot? Enough to pay the Minnesota Twins baseball team for the next 20 years and 19 times bigger than the prize money given away so far on WHO WANTS TO BE A MILLIONAIRE? And Paul, get this, the odds of winning with a $1 ticket are the same as putting a finger down on a list of everyone in America and landing on an ex- president. 

 KANGAS: I like the odds of making money in the stock market a lot better than that. 

 GHARIB: Well, you know, just to be safe, I got my ticket. 

 KANGAS: OK. 

 GHARIB: And a bunch of us at NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT got them. 

 KANGAS: If you win, we`ll split it. 

 GHARIB: I`ll let you know tomorrow. I`ll give you a little bit. 

 KANGAS: OK. 

 GHARIB: That`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Tuesday, May 9th. I`m Susie Gharib. Goodnight, everyone. And good night to you, Paul. 

 KANGAS: Goodnight, Susie. I`m Paul Kangas wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post-broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. 

 The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. 

 Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. 

 c2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL 888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dw590002k




financial
WARNACO SEES EARNING SHORTFALL -  

Thomas J. Ryan  
1,351 words
8 May 2000
Women's Wear Daily
WWD
2
English
Copyright 2000 Fairchild Publications, Inc. All Rights Reserved  

NEW YORK -- Warnaco Group stunned analysts and shareholders  

yet again Friday in warning that 2000 earnings would fall about  

50 cents short of Wall Street estimates.  

Clearance markdowns to reduce inventories, largely in intimate  

apparel, would reduce its earnings target for this year to $1.80  

a share, Warnaco warned. Wall Street's consensus estimate had  

been $2.33. In 1999, Warnaco earned $1.72 a share.  

Shares of Warnaco fell 1 11/16 to 8 7/8, a new 52-week low. Its  

12-month high of 30 5/8 was reached in August.  

The profit warning came as Warnaco reported first-quarter  

earnings of 11 cents a share excluding nonrecurring items, well  

below the 40-cent consensus estimate.  

But a previously announced pretax gain of $36.2 million on the  

sale of its investment in Interworld, an e-commerce developer,  

boosted net earnings by 24.8 percent, to $28.6 million, or 53  

cents a share, from $22.9 million, or 39 cents, a year ago. The  

quarter also included severance costs of $6.5 million tied to  

cost-saving moves.  

``We're clearing our inventory and we're getting ready for a  

very good year,'' said Linda J. Wachner, chairman, president and  

chief executive, in a phone interview. Wachner asserted the firm  

``still had a very good quarter,'' thanks to the timely sale of  

its stake in the e-commerce firm before investor sentiment  

soured on Internet stocks. ``Give us a little credit for that,''  

Wachner quipped. Warnaco had invested in Interworld as part of  

its Speedo Web site launch.  

Nonetheless, Wachner foresees a ``tough year'' and thus guided  

earnings forecasts down to work down inventory, which the firm  

told analysts ran between $25 million and $35 million above  

planned levels in intimate apparel and $8 million to $9 million  

above plan for Chaps.  

Wachner said she expected many department stores would turn  

promotional, given a difficult spring. ``Easter didn't happen  

for department stores this year, and that was difficult,''  

Wachner said. She said Warnaco decided to use the significant  

cash gain from the Interworld sale to liquidate stale inventory  

to concentrate on hotter products, such as the June launch of  

the ``Nothing But Curves'' push-up bra.  

``We believe we have a lot of best sellers and we're going to  

have a great year,'' said Wachner.  

Analysts were clearly disappointed in the earnings revision,  

particularly considering that Warnaco had put up the red flag in  

late December, guiding 2000 estimates down to $2.40 from $2.76  

at the time. A few on Friday cut estimates to $1.70 -- 10  

cents lower than Warnaco's projection -- to be on the safe  

side.  

``It was a big surprise, and as an analyst, you never want to be  

caught off guard,'' said Lorraine Miller at SunTrust Securities.  

``On the other hand, they are doing the right things  

strategically.''  

``This is a year of transition,'' said Dennis Rosenberg at C.S.  

First Boston. ``They need to get their inventories in line and  

they seem to be making progress in that. But as a result, they  

aren't going to do as well as they thought this year.''  

Net revenues in the quarter climbed 36.7 percent to $607 million  

from $444.1 million, driven by acquisitions last year of  

swimwear maker Authentic Fitness Corp., the Chaps Canadian  

license and ABS by Allan Schwartz. Excluding $161 million in  

sales from the purchases, sales nudged up 0.4 percent. Warnaco  

had warned last year that its core sales would be slowed by  

chains that either declared bankruptcy, liquidated or were sold  

in 1999, including Upton's, T. Eaton's, Mercantile Stores,  

Filene's Basement and Loehmann's, as well as problems with new  

Mexican plants. Warnaco noted that, excluding discontinued  

operations -- Marilyn Monroe and Valentino Ultimo -- and the  

impact of a weakening euro, sales were up 2 percent.  

By segment:  

Intimate apparel's EBITDA tumbled 45.3 percent to $26.1 million  

from $47.7 million, due to aggressive clearance markdowns. Sales  

eased 5 percent to $200 million. Discontinued businesses lowered  

sales by $2.2 million; lost accounts, by $8 million, and a  

weaker Euro, by $3.8 million. Sales of core Warner's-Olga  

product slid 12.8 percent to $63.8 million and Lejaby fell 11.8  

percent to $27.6 million, but Calvin Klein underwear increased  

4.9 percent to $75.2 million.  

Men's-Sportswear's EBITDA more than doubled to $69.9 million  

from $33.8 million as the addition of Authentic offset markdown  

pressures in Chaps and Calvin Klein junior jeans. Warnaco told  

analysts Chaps and CK jeans were seeing some impact from  

difficulties at Tommy Hilfiger. Sales jumped 72.2 percent to  

$358.9 million, with $132.2 million in sales from Authentic  

Fitness and $11.6 million from A.B.S. Excluding the  

acquisitions, sales gained 1.7 percent to $212 million. Chaps's  

revenues increased 11.4 percent to $68.4 million, but Calvin  

Klein jeanswear's sales dipped 3.2 percent to $137.6 million due  

to softness in juniors. However, backlogs in CK jeans and Chaps  

were up more than 20 percent each. Klein accessories leaped to  

$8.1 million from $3.8 million.  

Retail, which includes the 139-unit Authentic Fitness chain and  

102 Warnaco outlets, showed an EBITDA deficit of $9.2 million  

against $700,000 in income. Sales jumped 91.6 percent to $48.1  

million, including $14.2 million from Authentic. Excluding  

Authentic, sales gained 35.1 percent due to significant  

inventory liquidations. Same-store sales at the Authentic  

Fitness chain rose 3.5 percent.  

Warnaco told analysts its decision to sell Calvin Klein  

underwear to 300 of the higher-end doors of J.C. Penney was  

working out, offsetting sales lost when Dillard's dropped the  

line. Warnaco said it was opening 10 new CK underwear stores in  

the next six months, while the six stores in the Far East and  

two in London are seeing strong sell-throughs.  

Warnaco said the Speedo division was performing well and  

receiving publicity from the Olympics in Sydney and a new  

Fatskin swimsuit. Catalina is selling well at Wal-Mart and Polo  

swimwear was up two-fold.  

Analysts were miffed that Warnaco hadn't issued a warning about  

the first-quarter earnings, raising again the criticism that  

Warnaco doesn't communicate well with Wall Street. Warnaco told  

analysts it didn't know the full impact of its inventory issues  

in December, and planned to hold an analysts' meeting this June.  

Leslie McCall at Brown Bros. Harriman said Warnaco's main  

problems were the ``inventory overhang'' and most businesses  

were on plan. Factories are running more efficiently and new  

systems will allow Warnaco to better track inventory flow, she  

added.  

``I think if they just finish the year with the inventories  

clean and turn in a couple of quarters without surprises, people  

will remember that they do have a strong underlying business and  

a smart management team,'' said McCall.  

Inventory at the end of the first quarter was $734.7 million,  

virtually flat with $734.4 million at yearend, and Warnaco said  

its goal was to hit $675 million by yearend. Excluding acquired  

businesses, inventories were up 14.7 percent, an improvement  

from being up 30.2 percent at the end of 1999. The inventory  

markdowns eroded gross margins, to 29.9 percent from 34.7  

percent.  

Debt grew to $1.35 billion at the quarter's end from $616.8  

million a year ago due to the Authentic purchase, and the goal  

is to reach $1.1 billion by 2000's close.  

SunTrust's Miller said Warnaco must reach some of its goals  

before investors come back into the stock.  

``Warnaco still controls some very attractive brands and has  

some significant market share,'' said Miller. ``But it's a  

highly competitive environment and the stock is in a position  

more of having to show investors rather than people taking it on  

faith. But she's [Wachner] done it before.''  

Document WWD0000020040515dw5800249




 Business Brief -- SUNGLASS HUT INTERNATIONAL INC.: Earnings Warning Issued Due to April Sales Slump 

169 words
5 May 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Sunglass Hut Internationa Inc. warned that fiscal first-quarter profit would fall short of expectations because of an April sales slump. Sunglass Hut, of Coral Gables, Fla., said unusually cold and rainy weather in two-thirds of the company's "key domestic markets" led to a 4.5% decline in sales during the four weeks ended April 29. Sales sank to $49.3 million from $51.6 million a year earlier. The company expects its profit for the quarter ended April 29 is between eight cents and nine cents a share. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial estimated earnings of 14 cents a share. As of 4 p.m., Sunglass Hut rose 56.25 cents to $7.4375 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The warning was issued early yesterday. Separately, Sunglass Hut reached an accord to acquire Watch World International Inc., of New York, a 118-store specialty-watch retailer, for about $30 million. 

Document j000000020010807dw5500cjt




 WRAPUP-Dow ends down 250.99, bonds slide on rate fear. 

1,046 words
4 May 2000
01:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, May 3 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks and bonds slid on Wednesday, with the blue-chip Dow average falling 250.99 points, as investors' worries increased about the prospects of a big interest-rate boost by the Federal Reserve in mid-May. 

 The dollar surged against Europe's single currency and the Japanese yen, buoyed by more evidence of the U.S. economy's strength. The euro slumped to a record low of 88.87 cents per euro during U.S. trading - down more than 2 cents from Tuesday's New York close. The dollar also touched a two-month high above 109 yen before slipping a bit at the close. 

 In the commodities markets, oil prices fell after a government report showed crude stockpiles didn't drop as much as expected in the latest week. Grain futures rallied on forecasts of dry weather in the Midwest. Gold ended higher after Switzerland's bullion sales were tamer than expected. 

 The nerves of stock investors appeared to get more ragged and selling, especially of interest-rate-sensitive stocks, accelerated as the market focused on the fact that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan will speak in Chicago on Thursday - five minutes before the U.S. stock markets open. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average ended down 250.99 points, or 2.34 percent, at 10,480.13. The New York Stock Exchange turned on its programme trading curbs when the index slid past the 200-point mark. 

 The Nasdaq composite index lost 78.14 points, or 2.06 percent, to 3,707.31, rebounding in the final minutes of trading from a drop of 4.75 percent. Leading technology companies fell on a profit warning from software maker Novell Inc.  Novell plunged 6-15/16 to end at 10-5/8. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 31.19 points, or 2.16 percent, to 1,415.10. 

 Interest-rate-sensitive stocks took a beating. American Express fell 6-1/16 to 142, while J.P. Morgan & Co. lost 2-5/8 to 124-7/8. 

 Greenspan's speech, to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, is scheduled at 1325 GMT on Thursday. 

 The Fed chairman's speech "will give little hints designed to get the market prepared for a 50-basis-point increase in the federal funds rate," said Jim Kochan, fixed-income strategist at Robert W. Baird in New York. 

 The 30-year U.S. Treasury bond skidded 1-17/32, or $15.3125 for each $1,000 of face value, pushing its yield up to 6.12 percent from Tuesday's close of 6.02 percent. The U.S. Treasury 10-year note fell 23/32, with the yield rising to 6.40 percent from Tuesday's close of 6.30 percent. 

 Cash flew to the sidelines on Wednesday as economic numbers, comments from an American central banker and the Fed's Beige Book summary of the economy ratcheted up fears of a big increase in interest rates when the Fed's policy-makers meet on May 16. If that happens, it will be the sixth increase in short-term U.S. interest rates since last June. 

 A growing number of analysts are forecasting the central bank will opt for an aggressive 50-basis-point boost to slow the economy. 

 "We're less than two weeks away from the Fed meeting and there is a growing constituency that the next rate hike will be 50 basis points and that's bad for equity markets, allegedly," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Co. 

 The Fed's Beige Book showed that an acute shortage of workers pushed up wages in March and April, but retail prices remained well behaved. 

 The U.S. Commerce Department reported that orders for U.S. manufactured goods rose 2.2 percent in March, exceeding the 1.5 percent boost that had been expected by economists, and further fanning the flames of inflation fears. 

 What's more, William McDonough, the president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, said Wednesday the U.S. economy is starting to show signs of stress. He said that, especially in relation to the world economy, the U.S. economy is exhibiting signs of imbalance and strain. 

 In late U.S. currency trading, the euro fell to 89.56 cents - above its record low of 88.87 cents hit earlier in the day - but well below its close Tuesday of 90.98 cents. 

 The dollar edged off its two-month highs above 109 Japanese yen to settle at 108.97 yen, up 0.53 percent from 108.40 yen at Tuesday's close. However, trading was thin, with Tokyo shut for Japan's "Golden Week" holiday. 

 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for June delivery fell 14 cents to settle at $26.75 a barrel on lateprofit-taking, inspired by a lower-than-expected decline in U.S. crude stockpiles in the latest week, reported early Wednesday by the Department of Energy. 

 COMEX June gold rose $2.10 to settle at $279.10 a troy ounce. The Swiss National Bank's plans to sell excess gold reserves are in line with the market's expectations, so the market's reaction was muted, analysts had said on Tuesday. 

 At the Chicago Board of Trade, soybeans for May delivery rose 6-1/2 cents a bushel to $5.60-3/4. day. May corn ended up 4-1/4 cents at $2.41-3/4 a bushel. May wheat rose 5-3/4 cents to close at $2.60. Dry weather in the Midwest and forecasts of more of the same spurred the grain futures rally. 

 In London, the blue-chip FTSE-100 index recorded its biggest one-day point loss in more than 12 months on Wednesday, as telecom stocks got hurt by a tumble in the shares of U.S. giant AT&T Corp. The FTSE-100 ended down 188.6 points, or off 3 percent, at 6,184.8. 

 Japan's stock markets were closed Wednesday and will remain shut through Friday for the "Golden Week" holidays. Trading will resume on Monday. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5401uf8




 Dow set to bounce a bit, Europe wary pre-Greenspan. 

319 words
4 May 2000
12:14
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, May 4 (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures signalled a modest bounce for Wall Street on Thursday but trading was cautious ahead of a speech by U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, dealers said. 

 Inflation worries sparked a big sell-off on Wednesday ahead of Greenspan's address to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, due five minutes before the U.S. market opens. 

 Market attention was also focused on first quarter productivity and labour costs set for release at 1230 GMT. Inflation watchers will look to the report's unit labour cost index for signs that wage pressures are surging in a tight labour market. 

 "It's looking fairly subdued and we are set up for a cautious day. There is a little nervousness ahead of the productivity numbers and Greenspan," said one London dealer. 

 The June S&P future was trading 4.6 points higher at 1,426.9, compared with fair value of 1,423.7 and Nasdaq futures rose 14.95 points to 3,599.5, against fair value of 3,590.3. 

 On Wednesday, the Dow lost 2.34 percent, while the Nasdaq fell 2.06 percent to 3,707.31, rebounding in the final minutes of trading from a drop of 4.75 percent. 

 Dealers said features were sparse. Disney  changed hands on the Instinet electronic brokerage system trading at $41-1/4, up from their official close in the U.S. of $40-1/4 after it announced better-than-expected earnings in the fiscal second quarter. 

 Shares in software maker Novell , which plunged 37 percent to $10-5/8 after a profit warning on Wednesday, edged up to $11 in pre-market trade. ((Daren Butler, London Newsroom +44 20 7542 6884, fax +44 20 7542 2120, uk.equities.news@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw54018r1




 WRAPUP 2-Euro plunges against yen, bourses edge up. 

 By Michael Hughes 
843 words
4 May 2000
17:48
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, May 4 (Reuters) - European stock markets edged higher on Thursday after a nervously awaited speech by U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan proved to be a damp squib. 

 The euro fell to a lifetime low against the Japanese yen as the yen bounced higher against major currencies.The single European currency fell as low as 96.16 yen in U.S. trade, paralleling solid yen gains against the dollar. 

 The euro has been under persistent pressure against major currencies and slumped to a new lifetime low against the dollar earlier on Thursday. 

 Earlier stock market trepidation was dispelled with the Bank of England's unexpected decision to keep interest rates on hold. 

 The high profile speech from Greenspan made little impact. It focussed solely on the bank sector rather than the state of the world's biggest economy and the size of further expected interest rate rises 

 Britain's FTSE 100 trod a cautious path. Excitement over the Bank of England's surprise decision to freeze interest rates proved short-lived and little fresh direction came from Wall Street which was flat in early trade. 

 A day after suffering its biggest one-day points loss in over a year, the blue chip UK index closed a meagre 14.8 points or 0.2 percent higher at 6,199.6 - making little impression on Wednesday's 188.6 point slide. 

 Gainers were in a narrow 55 to 45 majority as the latest U.S. economic report - showing a less than expected productivity rise - revived interest rate worries ahead of Friday's U.S. closely-watched jobs report for April. French and German bourses also edged up. The Eurotop 300 index closed just 0.1 percent down at 1,644.69 after trading in a tight range as did the Euro Stoxx 50 index, which ended off 0.2 percent at 5,306.32. 

 U.S. BLUE CHIPS DOWN 

 In New York, interest-rate sensitive stocks pulled U.S. blue chips lower in late morning trading but the high-tech Nasdaq market crept higher after Greenspan did not comment on the interest rate outlook. 

 The Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee has raised interest rates five times since June, each by a modest 25 basis points. A spate of recent economic reports showing an uptick in inflationary pressures has led many on Wall Street to conclude the central bank will opt for a tougher, half percentage point hike at the next FOMC meeting on May 16. 

 "Overall, the market is handling these somewhat disappointing productivity figures pretty well," said Alfred Goldman, technical analyst at A.G. Edwards and Sons in St. Louis. 

 "People are pretty worried about inflation. If the Fed jams on the brakes, you worry about your heavy industry, economy-sensitive stocks, but the high-techs are under accumulation," he said. 

 U.S. Treasury prices bounced off session lows and turned mixed after Fed Chairman Greenspan offered no hints on the future course of monetary policy. 

 In London, British Telecom weighed on the FTSE 100, its 6.4 percent fall wiping 21 points from the index amid talk of profit downgrades in the wake of a profit warning earlier this week from U.S. giant AT&T. 

 BT denied market talk that it had briefed analysts to lower forecasts, describing the suggestion as "rubbish". 

 Yet BT's weakness was enough to take the sting out of strength in oil and pharmaceutical stocks, as selected "defensive" old economy sectors of the market found favour. 

 The Paris CAC-40 index was hauled up 100 points from its session low by Nasdaq's rebound and as upbeat corporate news fuelled strong gains. 

 The blue-chip index ended up 0.87 percent at 6,491.74 points from a 6,399.99-point low, with gainers outnumbering losers 25 to 13. The high-growth Nouveau Marche gained 1.28 percent as the U.S. tech index reversed two days of losses in early trade. 

 CAC-40 heavyweight Alcatel raced ahead of the pack with a huge 9.54 percent gain on strong first-quarter earnings and on news it will spin off its cable business to focus on telecoms. Over one billion euros in the stock changed hands. - 

 MARKETS AT 1631 GMT CURRENCIES (figure in brackets previous New York close) Euro/$ $0.8924 (0.8956) $/ Y 108.08 yen (108.97) STOCK MARKETS LONDON - FTSE 100: 6199.6 points, up 14.8 or 0.24 percent FRANKFURT - DAX-30: 7386.71 points, up 9.78 or 0.13 percent PARIS - CAC-40: 6491.74 points, up 56.09 or 0.87 percent NEW YORK - DOW JONES: 10431.42 points, down 48.71 or 0.46 percent NEW YORK - NASDAQ: 3690.33 points, down 16.98 or 0.46 percent PRECIOUS METALS (figures in brackets previous London PM fix) 

   GOLD - $280.85 ($275.6)   SILVER - $5.11 ($5) 

   Brent cruhde oil futures $25.42, up $0.42 

   ------------------------------------------------------------. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw54016n5


BUSINESS
AT&T's stock takes a dive 

Associated Press 
274 words
4 May 2000
The Cincinnati Post
CINP
English
© 2000 Cincinnati Post.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

AT&T's stock slid 15 percent Tuesday as the company issued its first profit warning under chief executive C. Michael Armstrong, fueling worries about whether his radical remake of the nation's largest long-distance company will succeed. 

The disappointing forecast, which came as AT&T posted first- quarter results that met most expectations, dampened the enthusiasm created by last week's initial public offering of $10.6 billion worth of stock in the company's wireless business. 

In fact, shares of the new AT&T Wireless Group also fell Tuesday even as three major brokerages initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" recommendation. 

AT&T stock was still falling today, and was down about $1.50 at midday. 

Predictably, price wars in consumer long-distance ranked high among the culprits that prompted the revised outlook for AT&T. 

Job cuts in that unit are already a major part of Armstrong's plan to cut $2 billion in costs during 2000, and the company reported Tuesday that 6,200 workers were notified in the first quarter that their positions are being eliminated, mostly in long-distance. 

The discouraging update raised new questions about AT&T's ambitious bid to become a new-age communications company, highlighted by an investment of more than $100 billion to buy and upgrade cable systems for telephone calls and high-speed Internet services. 

AT&T fell $7 per share to $42, finishing only a shade above its 52- week low, while AT&T Wireless fell $3 a share.  

Document cinp000020010804dw54006jp




BUSINESS
AT&T's stock falls 14 percent on long-distance hangups

Associated Press   
560 words
3 May 2000
Houston Chronicle
HOU
3 STAR
4
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK - AT&T's stock slid 14 percent Tuesday as the company issued its first profit warning under Chief Executive C. Michael Armstrong, fueling worries about whether his radical remake of the nation's largest long-distance company will succeed.

The disappointing forecast, which came as AT&T posted first-quarter results that met most expectations, dampened the enthusiasm created by last week's initial public offering of $10.6 billion worth of stock in the company's wireless business.

In fact, shares of the new AT&T Wireless Group also fell Tuesday even as three major brokerages initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" recommendation.

Predictably, price wars in consumer long-distance ranked high among the culprits that prompted AT&T's revised outlook.

Job cuts in that unit are already a major part of Armstrong's plan to cut $2 billion in costs during 2000, and the company reported Tuesday that 6,200 workers were notified in the first quarter that their positions are being eliminated, mostly in long-distance.

It wasn't clear, however, whether the worsening backdrop for long-distance would lead to even more aggressive cost-cutting in that unit. Still, since cost cuts totaled only $300 million in the first quarter, there would seem to be plenty of pain to come this year.

More unexpected than the troubles in consumer long-distance was the weakness AT&T reported in the far more profitable business of providing long-distance service to companies and other high-volume users, as well as the revelation of regulatory delays in the company's purchase of cable provider MediaOne.

Investors wasted no time in trashing the stock. AT&T fell 7 1/8 to 41 7/8, while AT&T Wireless fell 2 1/2 to 32 3/4, also on the New York Stock Exchange.

In a conference call following Tuesday's profit report, AT&T said it now expects to produce full-year operating profits of between $1.80 and $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94.

In the first three months of this year, AT&T earned $1.73 billion, or 53 cents a share, excluding one-time factors and some ownership interests that produced a net profit of $1.74 billion, or 54 cents a share, for the quarter.

The operating profit matched the 53 cents expected by most analysts, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial.

In last year's first quarter, AT&T posted an operating profit of $1.72 billion, but the per-share breakdown amounted to a heftier 61 cents because the company had not yet issued an avalanche of new stock in its purchase of cable provider Tele-Communications Inc. After one-time items, AT&T's net income totaled $1.08 billion, or 38 cents a share, in the first quarter of 1999.

Revenues came to $15.84 billion in the latest quarter, up 5.8 percent from the combined revenues of $14.97 billion posted a year ago by AT&T and the soon-to-be acquired operations of TCI and IBM Global Network, an Internet services business.

Document HOU0000020120818dw5300q89




MONEY
Microsoft, AT&T setbacks sink markets 

Adam Shell 
481 words
3 May 2000
USA Today
USAT
FINAL
04B
English
© 2000 USA Today.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.   All Rights Reserved.  

NEW YORK -- Buying dried up on Wall Street Tuesday after a profit warning from AT&T and less bullish comments from a top analyst about Microsoft's stock price. 

AT&T shares plunged 15% after it cut its profit forecast for fiscal year 2000. Microsoft fell $3.56, or 5%, to $69.88 after Mary Meeker of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter said the software giant is "fairly valued" in the $60s. On Monday, a few analysts set a price target of $125 to $135 in response to the government's plan to split Microsoft into two pieces. 

Renewed worries about Microsoft's future weighed down technology stocks. The Nasdaq composite fell 172.63 points, or 4.4%, to 3785.45. It was the Nasdaq's 10th-biggest point drop. Tuesday's slump snapped the Nasdaq's three-session winning streak. The tech-heavy index is 25% off its high. 

The sharp declines of AT&T and Microsoft, which are components of the Dow Jones industrials, also pushed the blue-chip index lower. The Dow lost 80.66 points, or 0.7%, to 10,731.12. AT&T and Microsoft accounted for 51 points of the Dow's loss. And if not for Intel's $5.94 loss to $121.19 on top of Microsoft and AT&T, the Dow would have been virtually unchanged. 

The Standard & Poor's 500 declined 21.96 points, or 1.5%, to 1446.29. The USA TODAY Internet 100 index fell 8.07 points, or 4.9%, to 155.81. 

News that March new home sales rose a surprising 4.5% also hurt stocks (story, 1B). It increased fears that the Federal Reserve will raise rates by half a percentage point at its May 16 meeting. 

"There was a lack of buyers and a lack of conviction," says Brian Belski, chief strategist at George K. Baum. "Interest rate and inflation fears are hovering over the market again." 

Highlights: H&R Block lost $7.69 to $34.87. It reported lower- than-expected tax preparation revenue. It also said its e-commerce unit will lose $18 million for the fiscal year ended Sunday. 

* BroadVision rose $3.88 to $46.94. Analysts at Credit Suisse First Boston and Goldman Sachs raised their ratings on the e- business software maker. 

* MarketWatch.com jumped $3.13 to $23.75. A First Albany analyst said the stock of the business news Web site is "undervalued" after dropping to a 52-week low.  


NYSE
 Advances           1,309
 Unchanged            416
 Declines           1,711
 New highs             55
 New lows              48
Volume (in millions)
 Up                   427
 Down                 550
 Total              1,016
Nasdaq
 Advances           1,454
 Unchanged            904
 Declines           2,557
 New highs             33
 New lows             120
Volume (in millions)
 Up                   359
 Down                 990
 Total              1,379
 

Markets Tuesday

Document usat000020010813dw53009dk




AT&T shares slump on warning.

By Adam Jones in New York. 
417 words
3 May 2000
The Times
T
24
English
© 2000 Times Newspapers Ltd. All rights reserved 

AT&T, the US telecommunications group, saw more than $22 billion ( #14 billion) erased from its stock market value yesterday after it issued a profit warning and said 6,200 jobs are being cut.

Shares in AT&T, a major partner of British Telecom, closed down 14 per cent on Wall Street. The slump from $49 to $41.94 was the stock's biggest decline since the stock market crash of 1987.

AT&T gave warning that this year's sales will be hit by a worse-than-expected decline in its traditional long-distance telephone operation.

It has been trying to build faster-growing businesses, such as Internet data transfer and cable television, to adjust to industry changes but the benefits are not kicking in quickly enough. Competition for long-distance telephone customers is fierce in the US.

The Internet has become a threat to such revenues because calls can be made through personal computers more cheaply than through a conventional telephone, a fact that has been recognised by AT&T's decision to invest in Net2Phone, an Internet call provider.

Michael Armstrong, the AT&T chairman, said the company is "still in the midst of its transformation" away from its traditional "legacy" businesses. But he added that its growth businesses "are gaining momentum".

AT&T is still trying to complete its $58 billion takeover of MediaOne, the cable television company, a deal that appeared spectacular last May but has since been eclipsed by other mega-mergers. AT&T has had to revise earnings estimates because of delays in getting regulatory approval for the deal, which may now close by mid-year, the company said yesterday. It refused to reveal why the deal was being held up, beyond blaming "factors raised by other industry transactions".

AT&T has also just completed the sale of shares in its mobile telephone arm, a deal that raised more than $10 billion. It was the biggest initial public offering of shares to date for a US company, dwarfing the $5.5 billion raised by UPS last year. However, the timing of the profit warning - so soon after the IPO - was leading to criticism yesterday.

Concert, the global alliance between AT&T and BT, is a $7 billion joint venture catering for the global telecommunications needs of multinational businesses.

(c) Times Newspapers Ltd, 2000.

Not Available for Re-dissemination. 

Document t000000020010818dw5300o0w




 Inflation fears rattle U.S. stocks ahead of Greenspan. 

 By Kristin Roberts 
864 words
3 May 2000
22:02
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, May 3 (Reuters) - Wall Street stocks were hammered nearly across the board on Wednesday as inflation worries sparked a selloff ahead of a speech by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan. 

 Cash flew to the sidelines as economic numbers, comments from a central banker and the Fed's Beige Book summary of the economy ratcheted up fears of a big increase in interest rates when policymakers meet on May 16. 

 "With no real players out there and no real demand and some skittish money coming out of the marketplace, this is the reaction you get," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Co. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average ended down 250.99 points, or 2.34 percent, at 10,480.13. The New York Stock Exchange turned on its programme trading curbs when the index slid past the 200-point mark. 

 Only five of the Dow's 30 stocks managed to climb as investors beat back the retail, energy, financial, technology and consumer products sectors. 

 The Nasdaq composite index lost 78.14 points, or 2.06 percent, to 3,707.31, rebounding in the final minutes of trading from a drop of 4.75 percent. Leading technology companies fell on a profit warning from software maker Novell Inc. 

 Nasdaq has logged two sessions in a row of losses, having slid 172 points on Tuesday. 

 Measures of the wider market also suffered with the Standard & Poor's 500 index down 31.19 points, or 2.16 percent, to 1,415.10, and the Wilshire 5000 down 278.66 points, or 2.07 percent, to 13,179.24. 

 "The market is looking for direction," said Peter Coolidge, senior equity trader at Brean Murray & Co. "It is hard for people to get a lot of enthusiasm for the market when they don't know what the Federal Reserve might do." 

 The central bank's policy-setting committee meets May 16 to decide whether to jack up interest rates for what would be the sixth time since last June. 

 A growing number of analysts are forecasting the central bank will opt for an aggressive 50-basis-point boost to slow the economy. 

 "We're less than two weeks away from the Fed meeting and there is a growing constituency that the next rate hike will be 50 basis points and that's bad for equity markets, allegedly," Hogan said. 

 The Fed's Beige Book anecdotal overview of the economy added to fears of rate hikes after the summary said an acute shortage of workers pushed up wages in March and April, but retail prices remained well behaved. 

 A Commerce Department report showing that orders for U.S. manufactured goods rose 2.2 percent in March, exceeding the 1.5 percent boost that had been expected by economists, also fanned the flames. 

 What's more, New York Federal Reserve President William McDonough said Wednesday that the U.S. economy is starting to show signs of stress and that, especially in relation to the world economy, is exhibiting signs of imbalance and strain. 

 That comes before Greenspan speaks, just before the market opens on Thursday, to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago's conference on "The Changing Financial Industry Structure and Regulation: Bridging States, Countries and Industries." 

 Interest-rate-sensitive stocks tumbled and the S&P retail index lost 5.74 percent while the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's bank index fell 1.90 percent. 

 Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's No. 1 retailer, was one of the Dow's biggest losers, falling 4-1/8 to 53-3/8, after Goldman Sachs cut its investment ratings on more than a dozen retailers. The firm said it sees a slowdown in spending growth in the second half of the year. 

 Powerhouse General Electric, considered a key gauge of the market's health by many of Wall Street's technical strategists, dropped 4-15/16 to 156-1/8. 

 Stock trading was subdued, with only 990.3 million shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange. Nasdaq logged volume of 1.48 billion shares. 

 The U.S. Treasury 30-year bond fell more than a full point as gathering concerns over labour shortages, manufacturing growth and price pressures stirred concerns. 

 The 30-year bond was off 1-17/32 with the yield rising to 6.12 percent from Tuesday's close of 6.02 percent. The U.S. Treasury 10-year note fell 23/32, with the yield rising to 6.40 percent from Tuesday's close of 6.30 percent. 

 On the upside, the shares of food and beverage companies shot higher amid talk of consolidation after Bestfoods said Unilever Plc made an unsolicited bid to buy the maker of Hellmann's mayonnaise and Skippy peanut butter. Bestfoods surged 10-7/8 to 61-7/16. 

 Coca-Cola Co. also gained - up 2-3/16 to 48-1/2 at the close - after signing a deal with America Online Inc. to develop online and offline marketing programmes, marking the beverage giant's first worldwide Internet marketing initiative. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5301vhb




 Novell plunges 37 percent after  profit warning . 

454 words
3 May 2000
20:25
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 PALO ALTO, Calif., May 3 (Reuters) - Business management software maker Novell Inc.'s  shares plunged 37 percent on Wednesday after the company warned that fiscal second-quarter profits are half what Wall Street had expected. 

 Novell shares nosedived 6-15/16 to 10-5/8 in late trading, hitting a 52-week low. The stock was the biggest percentage loser on the Nasdaq and is well off its year-high of 44-9/16. 

 After regular U.S. trading ended Tuesday, the Provo, Utah-based firm said that for the quarter ended April 30, it expected to report sales of just over $300 million and earnings of about 8 cents a share, half of the 16 cents Wall Street was forecasting. That figure includes the benefit of a $35 million royalty payment from Caldera Systems, most of which relates to an antitrust settlement between Caldera and Microsoft Corp. 

 The company cited stepped-up competition from Microsoft with its recent release of Windows 2000 and from the surging popularity of the Linux operating system. It also blamed a stumbling salesforce for the shortfall, which analysts said was the primary reason for the disappointing results. 

 "There's some neglect on our side that needs to be addressed," Dennis Raney, chief financial officer, said in an interview late Tuesday. He added that the problems should be resolved in the next two quarters. 

 The disappointing news prompted at least three brokerage firms to cut sales and earnings estimates for Novell's  current fiscal year. 

 Goldman Sachs cut its 2000 earnings-per-share estimate to $0.44 from $0.70. PaineWebber cut its 2000 forecast to $0.39 from $0.73, its 2000 sales forecast to $1.33 billion from $1.49 billion and its near-term price target to $15 from $27. Prudential Securities lowered its sales estimate to $1.1 billion from $1.5 billion and lowered its per-share earnings estimate for 2000 to $0.18 from $0.73. 

 On a conference call following the announcement, Raney said that sales quotes for the quarter weren't met. Because of problems with its salesforce and competitive issues, Raney said that Novell lost $10 million a week in sales for the last five weeks of the second quarter. 

 CIBC World Markets analyst Martin Pyykkonen cut his rating on the stock to "hold" from "strong buy," Wasserstein Perella Securities' Stephen Dube downgraded Novell stock to "buy" from "strong buy" and Preferred Capital Markets Inc. analyst Joel Achramowicz cut his rating to "accumulate" from "buy." 

 In the year-ago quarter, Novell earned 11 cents on revenue of $316 million. 

 (( duncan.martell@reuters.com // +1 650 461-3401 )). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5301ux9




 U.S. stocks open lower - Novell, retailers weigh. 

 By Eric Wahlgren 
680 words
3 May 2000
15:07
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, May 3 (Reuters) - A profit warning from software maker Novell Inc. hurt the Nasdaq market at the opening on Wednesday while retailer Wal-Mart Stores Inc. took the blue chips lower amid bearish comments on the retailing sector. 

 "You have a big downgrade among the retailers with people talking about how rising interest rates could have a negative impact on retailers," said Joe Barthel, chief investment officer at Fahnestock & Co. "If you start to see Wall Street turn negative on groups that are interest-rate related, that has a negative impact." 

 The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI) fell 92.15 points, or 0.86 percent, to 10,638.97 with Wal-Mart, one of the index's 30 components, down 3-13/16 at 53-11/16. 

 Goldman Sachs cut its investment ratings on many retailers, saying it sees a slowdown in spending growth in the second half of the year. 

 The widely-tracked Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) slipped 11.13 points, or 0.76 percent, to 1,435.26. 

 The Nasdaq composite .IXIC) fell 26.35 points, or 0.70 percent, to 3,759.1, a day after sliding 173 points. 

 The top loser on the tech-stacked index was Novell, off 5-9/16 at 12. The Business management software maker said on Tuesday that its fiscal second-quarter income would be about half what Wall Street expected. 

 "We are in for some more downward adjustments," said James Volk, co-director of institutional trading at D.A. Davidson & Co. "I am not really concerned that the market is going to go in some free-fall again. Novell is saying they are going to miss numbers and there is the fact that no good news is coming out with earnings season over." 

 By the time the trading day is over, Wall Street will have digested two economic reports that should shed more light on whether the U.S. economy is in danger of overheating. 

 The Commerce Department at 10:00 a.m. is scheduled to release March factory orders data with orders for manufactured goods expected to show a 1.5 percent increase. 

 The Federal Reserve's Beige Book, set for release at 2:00 p.m. (1800 GMT), will be looked at by traders for anecdotal reports on regional price pressures and labour shortages throughout the 12 Federal Reserve districts. 

 But the week's most important economic data, the U.S. payroll report for April, will not be released until Friday. Recent data has shown an uptick in inflationary pressures, raising concern that the Federal Reserve may raise interest rates aggressively when it meets next on May 16. 

 In a Reuters poll last week, 12 out of 29 primary dealers - the Wall Street firms that deal directly with the Fed in money markets - said they expect a half-point rate move on May 16. 

 The U.S. Treasury 10-year note eased 5/32, with the yield rising to 6.32 percent from Tuesday's close of 6.30 percent. The U.S. Treasury 30-year bond was off 8/32 with the yield rising to 6.03 percent from Monday's close of 6.02 percent. 

 Hellman's mayonnaise maker Bestfoods jumped 12-7/16 to 63 after Anglo-Dutch food and consumer goods giant Unilever Plc/NV urged executives to reconsider their rejection of Unilever's $18.41 billion cash bid. 

 Undersea fiber-optic network builder Global Crossing Ltd. rose 2 to 34-5/8 after posting a smaller-than-expected first-quarter loss as data sales surged and voice sales remained strong despite pricing pressure and intense competition through the industry. 

 Coca-Cola Co., the world's No. 1 softdrink maker and a Dow component, rose 11/16 to 47 after saying it had signed a multi-year marketing pact with Internet services provider America Online Inc. AOL was off 1/2 at 57-1/8. 

 ((Wall Street Desk, + 212.859.1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5301t9p




 RESEARCH ALERT - Novell target, estimates  cut . 

175 words
3 May 2000
14:54
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, May 3 (Reuters) - PaineWebber said it cut its price target to $15 from $27 on Novell Inc.  and Goldman Sachs and PaineWebber cut earnings estimates on the software maker after its profit warning. 

 - PaineWebber said it cut its 2000 revenue estimate to $1.33 billion from $1.49 billion. 

 - said it cut its 2000 earnings per share estimate to 39 cents a share from 73 cents a share. 

 - said it cut its 2001 revenue estimate to $1.49 billion from $1.74 billion and earnings estimate to 38 cents a share from 90 cents a share. 

 - said the company's primary problem is the replacement of its traditional business, Network Operating Systems (NOS), by the widespread adoption of Windows 2000 more than from a broadbased sector-wide slowdown. 

 - Goldman cut its 2000 earnings estimate to 44 cents a share from 70 cents a share. 

 - shares of Novell were off 5-5/8 at 11-15/16. 

 ((-New York technology desk, (212) 859-1860)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5301su2


 Profit Woes Hit AT&T Shares, Fuel Wider Fears 

 Peter J. Howe 
1,097 words
3 May 2000
Massachusetts
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Shares of AT&T Corp. lost nearly one-seventh of their value yesterday as Wall Street punished the phone giant for reporting a first-quarter profit drop and warning that this year's sales and earnings will narrowly miss analysts' forecasts. 

 AT&T stock, the nation's second most widely owned after Lucent Technologies, plunged $6.6875 to $41.9375 on the New York Stock Exchange, one of its worst one-day falls since the October 1987 stock market crash. 

 News that AT&T expects to miss its yearlong profit goals by just 1 percent seemed to crystallize Wall Street fears that the phone company is struggling to execute its conversion from a dinosaur in the dwindling long-distance phone business to an Internet-age provider of high-speed access, cable TV and wireless services. 

 "I think the market generally overreacts to news like this from a financial perspective, but the issues that are being raised are valid and important," said Brian Adamik, a telecommunications analyst with The Yankee Group in Boston. 

 "The honeymoon is over," Adamik said. "Now it's all about execution. It's all about signing up customers and lighting up the network. People see the strategy, but they're not seeing the numbers of customers they said they would deliver." 

 AT&T is in the middle of a $120 billion "bet-the-company" move into cable television. Its plans to buy MediaOne Group, Massachusetts' dominant cable TV provider, are part of a strategy of delivering telephone, TV and Internet access over upgraded cable lines. AT&T also announced a deal last week to buy Cablevision's franchises in Boston and 38 suburbs. 

 In a conference call with stock analysts, AT&T chairman C. Michael Armstrong insisted that "we know where our problems are. We know what to do and how to do it." 

 Armstrong said profits for 2000 will be $1.87 to $1.92 a share before special factors, about 2 cents less than previous forecasts. Sales will grow 7 percent to 8 percent, rather than the 8 percent to 9 percent AT&T forecast in December. 

 "We will reignite growth," Armstrong promised, adding that the company will eliminate 6,200 jobs by next year, about 4.2 percent of its current work force. 

 By most accounts, MediaOne is making far more progress bringing telephone and high-speed Net customers to its cable systems than AT&T. AT&T hopes to close its $58 billion purchase of MediaOne this summer. 

 AT&T yesterday confirmed figures reported in The Wall Street Journal that by the end of March it had signed up only one-tenth the 400,000 to 500,000 new customers it had planned to bring into its former TCI cable systems. The company needs to start signing up customers 43 times faster than it did in 1999 to meet its targets. 

 MediaOne already has 94,000 telephone customers nationally, and just in Massachusetts and New Hampshire has over 120,000 cable modems in service. 

 AT&T still gets three-quarters of its sales from residential and business landline telephone customers, a market where it faces unrelenting competition. 

 Bell Atlantic has apparently taken away hundreds of thousands of AT&T long-distance customers in New York state, and is aiming to get into long distance in Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania this year. Other Baby Bells are looking to enter the long-distance market in Georgia and Texas. 

 The earnings warning came a week after AT&T spun off $10.6 billion worth of tracking stock in its fast-growing wireless unit in the country's largest initial public offering. 

 Some investors grumbled that AT&T should have made its problems in the core business clear before the wireless deal. 

 "I wonder why they didn't make us aware of the problems they were having before now. My strong gut feeling is they wanted the wireless offering to go off well," said Jana Harris of the Ohio Public Employees Retirement System. "A lot of people feel misguided or somewhat deceived." 

 AT&T Wireless shares fell $2.50 yesterday to $32.0625. 

 Also, shareholders of Colorado-based MediaOne are guaranteed $85 in AT&T stock and/or cash for each of their shares as long as AT&T trades between $51.30 and $57. AT&T could be forced to come up with $3.5 billion more in cash if the shares remain at or below the bottom of that range. AT&T's meltdown also dragged down shares of MediaOne, which fell 8 percent to $71.4375 on the Big Board. 

 Among numbers reported by the New York company: 

 First-quarter profit from operations fell 9 percent to $1.51 billion, or 46 cents a share, from $1.66 billion, or 59 cents, a year earlier. 

 Sales rose 5.8 percent to $15.84 billion, but it was the second straight quarter of slowing revenue growth. 

 Because of the long-distance price war, consumer long-distance revenue will fall 5 to 7 percent this year, more than the earlier predicted decline of 3 to 5 percent. Business telephone revenue will grow 8 percent, down from a previous forecast of 9 percent to 11 percent growth. 

 AT&T Wireless revenues jumped 41 percent in the winter quarter to $2.2 billion, with total US customers -- including those of affiliates -- climbing 30 percent to 13.1 million. 

 Broadband unit revenues, including the former Tele-Communications Inc., bought last year, increased 7.9 percent to $1.5 billion. 

 Some analysts speculated that AT&T may create additional tracking stocks or spin off its broadband operations to pump up its stock and bring in new funds to expand. Armstrong would only say that "we keep our options open going forward." 

 Over the last 30 months, AT&T shares have risen on average only 17 percent a year, below the 22 percent yearly growth of the Standard & Poor's 500 index and way under top rival MCI WorldCom's 33 percent annual increase. 

 "We're in a very volatile market and any news one way or the other is disproportionately reacted to," Armstrong said in a Bloomberg Television interview. He predicted investors will "look at a 1 percent change in outlook in terms of revenue and bring it back into equilibrium." 

 Material from Bloomberg News was used in this report. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw5300v1p


 AT&T's Poor Showing Puts CEO on the Hot Seat 

 Joseph R. Perone 
892 words
3 May 2000
New Jersey
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Since taking the top job at AT&T Corp. two and a half years ago, Michael Armstrong has said people should judge his performance in two ways: How the company executes its business plan and how it racks up shareholder value. 

 Yesterday was judgment day. 

 AT&T's shares, already down for the year, dropped another 7-1/16 to finish at 41-15/16 after Armstrong warned that profit won't meet expectations this year -- the first time he's issued such a warning since he took over the U.S.'s largest telephone company in 1997. The news unsettled investors who wonder if Armstrong's efforts to change the company's mix of businesses will succeed. 

 "Some of his aura is starting to wear off," said Jana Harris, an analyst for the Ohio Public Employees Retirement System, which owns shares of AT&T. "People have been very patient so far, but my patience is wearing thin." 

 AT&T reported flat first-quarter operating profit and forecast lower earnings for the year because of a downturn in its consumer long-distance business and higher costs to acquire cable television operations. The company also said it will cut 6,200 jobs by the end of the year. 

 For his part, Armstrong remains confident that AT&T will weather this storm. 

 "We know where our problems are," he told analysts yesterday. "We know what to do with it, and we know how to do it." 

 To be sure, longtime AT&T holders have done well because they reaped shares in the Baby Bells and Lucent Technologies over the years that exceeded expectations. And few analysts thought the problems AT&T faced, especially its declining long-distance business, could be solved by a quick fix. 

 Still, investors have seen the shares drop nearly 30 percent from their 52-week high of 63, reached a year ago this month. 

 "AT&T is going into a headwind now in the execution and deployment period," said Ted Henderson, analyst and managing director of research at Janco Partners Inc. "It's going to be somewhat volatile." 

 The company, which has executive offices in Basking Ridge, succeeded in raising $10.6 billion from a stock offering of its wireless operations last week. 

 But it's long-distance business continues to face rough competition from companies such as MCI WorldCom, which reported strong earnings gains last month. AT&T also is investing billions of dollars to buy and improve cable TV systems it owns so it can offer local phone and other telecommunications services over the same wires. 

 The problem is that the transition into a more nimble company is going to take too much time for some investors, said Jeff Kagan, an independent Atlanta-based telecom industry analyst. 

 "Armstrong was hired to make the tough calls, and their long-term strategy looks sound, but it will take years to unfold," Kagan said. "That's the rub. Wall Street is not patient. This is where we see what Mike Armstrong and the New AT&T is made of. 

 "Can they stay the course and keep their eye on the ball for the company's long-term health, or will they give in to short-term pressures from Wall Street?" 

 AT&T is not like smaller, more agile competitors such as MCI WorldCom or Qwest. Its size makes it closer in scope to large multinationals such as IBM and General Motors, which required years of painful restructurings in recent years to turn themselves around. 

 That puts Armstrong in the position of investing in a future that's a few years away while appeasing investors whose patience is as thin as a fiber-optic line. 

 "The AT&T paradox is tough to solve," Kagan said. "On one hand, they need to transform the company and prepare for the future. On the other hand they need to keep Wall Street happy every quarter. These are competing and conflicting goals which require different strategies." 

 Armstrong gets some credit for being shrewd enough to sell shares in the wireless tracking stock, a move that raised $10.6 billion for AT&T, analysts said. The stock was probably worth no more than $8 a share even though it sold for nearly four times as much, said A. Michael Noll, a professor at the Annenberg School for Communications at the University of Southern California. 

 "He gets back what they paid for it when AT&T bought the wireless operation from McCaw Cellular, and he retains 85 percent of the ownership," Noll said. 

 AT&T also stands to gain a windfall from selling its shares in Time Warner Inc. when America Online Inc. completes its acquisition of the media company later this year, he said. 

 "Their problem isn't cash flow -- it's what's happening to their business," Noll said. "I've never seen such a confused company. They run the best long-distance network in the world, but I don't think they understand what their business is anymore. 

 "It might have to be a smaller company that's profitable rather than a company that tries to jump into everything." 

 Bloomberg News contributed to this story. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw5300uzp




 BUSINESS 
 INVESTORS HAVING HANG-UPS ABOUT AT&T  PROFIT WARNING  DEPRESSES STOCK 

 BRUCE MEYERSON  The Associated Press 
480 words
3 May 2000
Sun-Sentinel Ft. Lauderdale
FLSS
Broward Metro
3D
English
 (Copyright 2000 by the Sun-Sentinel) 

 AT&T's stock slid 15 percent Tuesday as the company issued its first profit warning under Chief Executive C. Michael Armstrong, fueling worries about whether his radical remake of the nation's largest long-distance company will succeed. 

 The disappointing forecast, which came as AT&T posted first- quarter results that met most expectations, dampened the enthusiasm created by last week's initial public offering of $10.6 billion of stock in the company's wireless business. 

 In fact, shares of the new AT&T Wireless Group also fell Tuesday even as three major brokerages initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" recommendation. 

 Predictably, price wars in consumer long-distance ranked high among the culprits that prompted AT&T's revised outlook. 

 Job cuts in that unit are already a major part of Armstrong's plan to cut $2 billion in costs during 2000, and the company reported Tuesday that 6,200 workers were notified in the first quarter that their positions are being eliminated, mostly in long-distance. 

 It wasn't clear, however, whether the worsening backdrop for long- distance would lead to even more aggressive cost-cutting in that unit. Still, because cost cuts totaled only $300 million in the first quarter, there would seem to be plenty of pain to come this year. 

 "We're not going to speculate on job cuts, although we're certainly going to focus on the cost infrastructure of all legacy businesses," said Chief Financial Officer Charles Noski, referring to AT&T's traditional telephone operations. 

 More unexpected than the troubles in consumer long-distance was AT&T's weakness in the far more profitable business of providing long- distance service to companies and other high-volume users, as well as the revelation of regulatory delays in the company's purchase of cable provider MediaOne. 

 The discouraging update raised questions about AT&T's ambitious bid to become a new-age communications company, highlighted by an investment of more than $100 billion to buy and upgrade cable systems for telephone calls and high-speed Internet services. 

 Investors, already slightly dubious about whether a company so large can pull off such a dramatic transformation, wasted no time in trashing the stock. AT&T fell $6.81 to $41.94, finishing just above its 52-week low, while AT&T Wireless fell $3 a share to $32.25. 

 AT&T said it now expects to produce full-year operating profits of between $1.80 and $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94. 

 In the first three months of this year, AT&T earned $1.73 billion, or 53 cents a share, matching most analysts' estimates. 

Document flss000020010820dw5300k6j




 Business 
 AT&T stock tumbles 15% 

 Bruce Meyerson 
ASSOCIATED PRESS
286 words
3 May 2000
San Antonio Express-News
SAEN
Metro
01E
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 San Antonio Express-News. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK - AT&T's stock slid 15 percent Tuesday as the company issued its first profit warning under Chief Executive C. Michael Armstrong, fueling worries about whether his radical remake of the nation's largest long-distance company will succeed. 

 The disappointing forecast, which came as AT&T posted first-quarter results that met most expectations, dampened the enthusiasm created by last week's initial public offering of $10.6 billion worth of stock in the company's wireless business. 

 In fact, shares of the new AT&T Wireless Group also fell Tuesday, even as three major brokerages initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" recommendation. 

 Predictably, price wars in consumer long-distance service ranked high among the culprits that prompted AT&T's revised outlook. 

 Job cuts in that unit are already a major part of Armstrong's plan to cut $2 billion in costs during 2000, and the company reported Tuesday that 6,200 workers were notified in the first quarter that their positions are being eliminated, mostly in long-distance service. 

 More unexpected than the troubles in consumer long-distance service was the weakness AT&T reported in the far more profitable business of providing long-distance service to companies and other high-volume users, as well as the revelation of regulatory delays in the company's purchase of cable provider MediaOne. 

 The discouraging update raised new questions about AT&T's ambitious bid to become a new-age communications company, highlighted by an investment of more than $100 billion to buy and upgrade cable systems for telephone calls and high-speed Internet services. 

Document saen000020010813dw5300c61




BUSINESS
AT&T STOCK TUMBLES 14%  PROFIT WARNING  CITES PRICE WARS 

ASSOCIATED PRESS 
517 words
3 May 2000
The Plain Dealer
CLEV
FINAL / ALL
1C
English
© 2000 The Plain Dealer.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

AT&T's stock slid 14 percent yesterday as the company issued its first profit warning under chief executive C. Michael Armstrong, fueling worries about whether his efforts to remake the nation's largest long-distance company will succeed. 

The disappointing forecast, which came as AT&T posted first- quarter results that met most expectations, dampened the enthusiasm created by last week's initial public offering of $10.6 billion worth of stock in the company's wireless business. 

Shares of the new AT&T Wireless Group also fell yesterday even as three major brokerages initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" recommendation. 

Predictably, price wars in consumer long-distance ranked high among the culprits that prompted AT&T's revised outlook. 

Job cuts in that unit are a major part of Armstrong's plan to cut $2 billion in costs during 2000, and the company reported yesterday that 6,200 workers were notified in the first quarter that their positions are being eliminated, mostly in long-distance. 

It wasn't clear, however, whether the worsening backdrop for long- distance would lead to even more aggressive cost-cutting in that unit. 

"We're not going to speculate on job cuts, although we're certainly going to focus on the cost infrastructure of all legacy businesses," chief financial officer Charles Noski said, referring to AT&T's traditional telephone operations. 

AT&T fell $7.13 per share to $41.88, finishing only a shade above its 52-week low, while AT&T Wireless fell $3 a share to $32.25, also on the New York Stock Exchange. 

In a conference call after yesterday's profit report, AT&T said it now expects to produce full-year operating profits of $1.80 to $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94. 

In the first three months of this year, AT&T earned $1.73 billion, or 53 cents a share, in the first three months of 1999, excluding one- time factors and some ownership interests that boosted net profit to $1.74 billion, or 54 cents a share, for the quarter. 

The operating profit matched the 53 cents expected by most analysts, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

In last year's first quarter, AT&T posted an operating profit of $1.72 billion, but the per-share breakdown amounted to a heftier 61 cents because the company had not yet issued an avalanche of new stock in its purchase of cable provider Tele-Communications Inc. After one-time items, AT&T's net income totaled $1.08 billion, or 38 cents a share, in the first quarter of 1999. 

Revenues came to $15.84 billion in the latest quarter, up 5.8 percent from the combined revenues of $14.97 billion posted a year ago by AT&T and the soon-to-be acquired operations of TCI and IBM Global Network.  

Document clev000020010804dw5300dcd




BUSINESS
GLOOMY FORECAST PUMMELS AT&T STOCK 

BRUCE MEYERSON, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
785 words
3 May 2000
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
PPGZ
SOONER
C-1
English
© 2000 Post Gazette Publishing Company.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

AT&T's stock slid 15 percent yesterday as the company issued its first profit warning under chief executive C. Michael Armstrong, fueling worries about whether his radical remake of the nation's largest long-distance company will succeed. 

The disappointing forecast, which came as AT&T posted first- quarter results that met most expectations, dampened the enthusiasm created by last week's initial public offering of $10.6 billion worth of stock in the company's wireless business. 

In fact, shares of the new AT&T Wireless Group also fell yesterday even as three major brokerages initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" recommendation. 

Predictably, price wars in consumer long-distance ranked high among the culprits that prompted AT&T's revised outlook. 

Job cuts in that unit are already a major part of Armstrong's plan to trim $2 billion in costs during 2000, and the company reported yesterday that 6,200 workers were notified in the first quarter that their positions are being eliminated, mostly in long-distance. 

It wasn't clear, however, whether the worsening backdrop for long- distance would lead to even more aggressive cost-cutting in that unit. Still, since cost cuts totaled only $300 million in the first quarter, there would seem to be plenty of pain to come this year. 

"We're not going to speculate on job cuts, although we're certainly going to focus on the cost infrastructure of all legacy businesses," said chief financial officer Charles Noski, referring to AT&T's traditional telephone operations. 

More unexpected than the troubles in consumer long-distance was the weakness AT&T reported in the far more profitable business of providing long-distance service to companies and other high-volume users, as well as the revelation of regulatory delays in the company's purchase of cable provider MediaOne. 

The discouraging update raised new questions about AT&T's ambitious bid to become a new-age communications company, highlighted by an investment of more than $100 billion to buy and upgrade cable systems for telephone calls and high-speed Internet services. 

Investors, already slightly dubious about whether a company so large can pull off such a dramatic transformation, wasted no time in trashing the stock. AT&T, the most active issue on the New York Stock Exchange, plunged 7 1/8, or 14.5 percent, to 41 7/8, accounting for a large chunk of the Dow Jones industrial average's decline. AT&T Wireless fell 3 to 32 1/4, also on the New York Stock Exchange. 

In a conference call following yesterday's profit report, AT&T said it now expects to produce full-year operating profits of between $1.80-to-$1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89- to-$1.94 per share. 

In the first three months of this year, AT&T earned $1.73 billion, or 53 cents a share, on an operating basis, matching most analysts' forecast. Ownership interests and one-time factors boosted the net profit to $1.74 billion, or 54 cents a share. 

In last year's first quarter, AT&T posted an operating profit of $1.72 billion, but the per-share breakdown amounted to a heftier 61 cents because the company had not yet issued an avalanche of new stock in its purchase of cable provider Tele-Communications Inc. After one-time items, AT&T's net income totaled $1.08 billion, or 38 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. 

Revenues came to $15.84 billion in the latest quarter, up 5.8 percent from the combined revenues of $14.97 billion posted a year ago by AT&T and the soon-to-be acquired operations of TCI and IBM Global Network, an Internet services business. 

First-quarter sales in AT&T Wireless, which had its record- breaking $10 billion IPO last week, increased 40.7 percent to $2.2 billion. Wireless subscribers increased 30.2 percent to 13.1 million, including various partnerships. 

Revenues in the broadband unit -- which includes TCI -- increased 7.9 percent to $1.5 billion. 

At the end of the quarter, AT&T said it provided cable-based telephone service to about 39,500 customers, including some South Hills homes, an increase of 31,200 customers from the previous quarter. 

It said it remains on track to meet its year-end target of 400,000 to 500,000 customers, countering media reports that it may miss that goal.  

Reuters News Service contributed to this report.

Document ppgz000020010812dw5300la3




BUSINESS
Investors batter AT&T TECHNOLOGY: Its stock suffers a worst-ever 15% drop amid concerns about - performance. 

SETH  SCHIESEL 
The New York Times
821 words
3 May 2000
The Orange County Register
OCR
English
© 2000 Orange County Register.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

After a day like Tuesday, it is easy to see that C. Michael Armstrong, chairman of AT&T, may have the toughest job in corporate America. 

It was the worst day for AT&T's investors in more than a dozen years, and Armstrong probably has not had such an unpleasant professional experience since he took over the company in 1997. 

AT&T announced quarterly financial results that met analysts' expectations. But the company also warned that its earnings and, perhaps more important, its revenue growth for the full year would be lower than anticipated. 

AT&T's stock slid 15 percent after the company issued its first profit warning under Armstrong, fueling worries about whether his remake of the nation's largest long-distance company will succeed. 

It was the biggest percentage decline in AT&T's stock, one of the most widely held in the nation, since the stock market crash of 1987. 

Perhaps adding some psychological pain to the financial burn, AT&T ended a trading session for the first time with a lower market value than one of its Baby Bell progeny -- $134 billion to SBC Communications Inc.'s $144 billion -- according to Thomson Financial Securities Data, a research firm. 

Since taking AT&T's top job after three decades at IBM and a stint running General Motors' Hughes Electronics unit, Armstrong has been a whirlwind of activity trying to reinvigorate AT&T and to take advantage of the revolution in digital communications. 

He has committed more than $90 billion of sharehold-ers' money to build the nation's biggest cable television operation. 

He has spent billions more building the company's torrid wireless division. He is intent on making AT&T the biggest provider of high- speed Internet service to U.S. consumers. 

Despite Tuesday's vertigo-inducing sell-off, all these initiatives are going well. But AT&T simply has not been able to escape its deteriorating legacy as a long-distance telephone carrier and is running out of chances with impatient investors who are hoping that AT&T's future is now. 

With defiance in every word, Armstrong defended his legacy. 

"There's been a lot of speculation or comment on whether we can grow the businesses that we've invested in and acquired," he said Tuesday in a telephone interview. "Take wireless and broadband. We're redefining the AT&T circuit-switched network to one that is both optical and broadband. These are the businesses that we have invested in for the future, and this year they're going to grow over 12 percent and their growth rate is accelerating. 

"Three years ago, we were growing at 1.7 percent and we had a domestic long-distance voice business. 

"The good news about today's results," he added, "is that it is a confirmation that the growth businesses are growing." 

However, AT&T said Tuesday that its core consumer long-distance telephone business is shrinking even more quickly than the company had previously led analysts to believe and that its unit that serves business customers had mismanaged some of its biggest accounts. Forbearance was not in the air. 

Until Tuesday, AT&T had guided stock analysts to expect that revenue for its consumer unit, which is dominated by long-distance telephone sales, would shrink by 3 to 5 percent this year. Tuesday, the company said the unit would shrink by 5 percent to 7 percent, a victim of the growing popularity of wireless phones and of low-cost calling plans like its own flat-rate long-distance plan for 7 cents a minute. (AT&T added that if a regulatory plan to which it has agreed takes effect, the decline would actually be 6 percent to 8 percent.) 

That was not a killer for AT&T. Just about everyone on Wall Street and in the communications business knows that AT&T's consumer unit is shrinking and if the pace is accelerating, well, perhaps that is to be expected. 

What was not expected was the problem in the company's business- services unit, which has been consistently robust in recent years. 

In the first quarter, AT&T transferred almost 300 of its biggest corporate accounts to its Concert joint venture with British Telecom. 

In the shuffle, some customers were neglected, if not lost. 

Continuing its cost-cutting drive, AT&T said it would cut 6,200 jobs, or about 4 percent of its work force, by the end of the year.  

GRAPH;  Caption: GRAPH: AT&T FIRST-QUARTER REPORT - Bar graphs compare  operating earnings, operating earnings per share &revenue for 1999 &  2000;  Credit: The Associated Press 

Document ocr0000020010809dw5300ibj




 Business 
 'New' AT&T takes a hit - Company's poor showing puts CEO on the hot seat<br> - Wall Street losing its patience with telecom giant's slow tranformation 

 Joseph R. Perone 
Star-Ledger Staff
1,087 words
3 May 2000
The Star-Ledger Newark, NJ
NSL
FINAL
051
English
 (c) 2000. The Star-Ledger. All rights reserved. 

 Since taking the top job at AT&T Corp. two and a half years ago, Michael Armstrong has said people should judge his performance in two ways: How the company executes its business plan and how it racks up shareholder value. 

 Yesterday was judgment day. 

 AT&T's shares, already down for the year, dropped another 7-1/16 to finish at 41-15/16 after Armstrong warned that profit won't meet expectations this year - the first time he's issued such a warning since he took over the U.S.'s largest telephone company in 1997. The news unsettled investors who wonder if Armstrong's efforts to change the company's mix of businesses will succeed. 

 ''Some of his aura is starting to wear off," said Jana Harris, an analyst for the Ohio Public Employees Retirement System, which owns shares of AT&T. "People have been very patient so far, but my patience is wearing thin." 

 AT&T reported flat first-quarter operating profit and forecast lower earnings for the year because of a downturn in its consumer long-distance business and higher costs to acquire cable television operations. The company also said it will cut 6,200 jobs by the end of the year. 

 For his part, Armstrong remains confident that AT&T will weather this storm. 

 ''We know where our problems are," he told analysts yesterday. "We know what to do with it, and we know how to do it." 

 To be sure, longtime AT&T holders have done well because they reaped shares in the Baby Bells and Lucent Technologies over the years that exceeded expectations. And few analysts thought the problems AT&T faced, especially its declining long-distance business, could be solved by a quick fix. 

 Still, investors have seen the shares drop nearly 30 percent from their 52-week high of 63, reached a year ago this month. 

 ''AT&T is going into a headwind now in the execution and deployment period," said Ted Henderson, analyst and managing director of research at Janco Partners Inc. "It's going to be somewhat volatile." 

 The company, which has executive offices in Basking Ridge, succeeded in raising $10.6 billion from a stock offering of its wireless operations last week. 

 But it's long-distance business continues to face rough competition from companies such as MCI WorldCom, which reported strong earnings gains last month. AT&T also is investing billions of dollars to buy and improve cable TV systems it owns so it can offer local phone and other telecommunications services over the same wires. 

 The problem is that the transition into a more nimble company is going to take too much time for some investors, said Jeff Kagan, an independent Atlanta-based telecom industry analyst. 

 ''Armstrong was hired to make the tough calls, and their long-term strategy looks sound, but it will take years to unfold," Kagan said. "That's the rub. Wall Street is not patient. This is where we see what Mike Armstrong and the New AT&T are made of. 

 ''Can they stay the course and keep their eye on the ball for the company's long-term health, or will they give in to short-term pressures from Wall Street?" 

 AT&T is not like smaller, more agile competitors such as MCI WorldCom or Qwest. It's closer in scope to multinationals such as IBM and General Motors, which required years of painful restructurings in recent years to turn themselves around. 

 That puts Armstrong in the position of investing in a distant future while appeasing investors whose patience is as thin as a fiber-optic line. 

 ''The AT&T paradox is tough to solve," Kagan said. "On one hand, they need to transform the company and prepare for the future. On the other hand they need to keep Wall Street happy every quarter. These are competing and conflicting goals which require different strategies." 

 Armstrong gets some credit for being shrewd enough to sell shares in the wireless tracking stock, a move that raised $10.6 billion for AT&T, analysts said. The stock was probably worth no more than $8 a share even though it sold for nearly four times as much, said A. Michael Noll, a professor at the Annenberg School for Communications at the University of Southern California. 

 ''He gets back what they paid for it when AT&T bought the wireless operation from McCaw Cellular, and he retains 85 percent of the ownership," Noll said. 

 AT&T also stands to gain a windfall from selling its shares in Time Warner Inc. when America Online Inc. completes its acquisition of the company later this year, he said. 

 ''Their problem isn't cash flow - it's what's happening to their business," Noll said. "I've never seen such a confused company. They run the best long-distance network in the world, but I don't think they understand what their business is anymore. 

 ''It might have to be a smaller company that's profitable rather than a company that tries to jump into everything." 

 1. LIST: Key goals Four things AT&T needs to do to turn things around: Start getting returns on its big investment in cable. Keep profit margins up long enough in its consumer long-distance business to fund the investments it s making in higher-growth units. Blend new pieces of the company together without a drop in the performance of individual units. Get regulatory approval for acquisition of cable company MediaOne without costly concessions. 2. LIST: STOCK ON THE ROCKS AT&T Corp. Exchange                NYSE Shares outstanding      3.2 billion 52-week high            63 52-week low             411/8 Year-to-date change       17.10% 1-year total return       15.15% ROUGH RIDE Yesterday Close           4115/16 Change            71/16 Percent change    14.4% Volume          65 million Market value Monday          $156.8 billion Yesterday       $133.9 billion Change            $22.9 billion EARNINGS 1st Quarter 2000 Profits         $1.73 billion Per share       53 cents 1st Quarter 1999 Profits         $1.72 billion Per share       61 cents 2000 projections Per share               $1.80-$1.85 Revised from            $2.10-$2.15 Revenue growth          7%-8% Revised from            8%-9% 

Document nsl0000020010808dw5300oav




 News 
 AT&T stock suffers serious loss  -  Market reacts to  cut  of 6,200 jobs and lower profits 

 Jeff May 
Star-Ledger Staff
928 words
3 May 2000
The Star-Ledger Newark, NJ
NSL
FINAL
001
English
 (c) 2000. The Star-Ledger. All rights reserved. 

 AT&T's stock suffered its biggest single-day slide in 13 years yesterday after the company said it would cut 6,200 jobs and pare profit estimates for the year. 

 The profit warning is a major blow for AT&T Chairman C. Michael Armstrong, who has made a habit out of meeting or beating analysts' earnings estimates since he took over the nation's largest telecommunications company in 1997. If yesterday's reaction by the market is any indication, though, investors are in no mood to cut him much slack. 

 ''Wall Street will give this guy another 12 to 18 months to deliver and then look very hard at the decisions he has made," said Robert Rosenberg, president of Insight Research Corp. in Parsippany. 

 Blaming a quicker-than-anticipated erosion in its consumer long-distance business and a surprisingly tepid performance by its sales force for big corporate accounts, AT&T lowered its earnings forecast for the year by 5 percent, or 9 cents per share. It isn't clear how many of the job cuts will be in New Jersey. 

 Investors pushed the stock down as much as 16 percent to a 52-week low of 1 8 per share. At 6 p.m., shares were trading at 15 16 , down 1 16 . The company's new wireless tracking stock fell 3 to 1 4 per share. 

 ''I think we're in a very volatile market and any news one way or the other is disproportionately reacted to," Armstrong told Bloomberg Television at midday. "I think it will come back to equilibrium." 

 It better. AT&T plans to complete its merger with the nation's No. 3 cable company, MediaOne, by midsummer. If its shares don't average $57 for a period before the deal closes, AT&T must hand over as much as $3 billion in cash to MediaOne stockholders. 

 Including MediaOne, Armstrong has made enormous investments in cable and wireless networks to refashion AT&T as a high-growth company. But the risky strategy is still a year or more away from paying substantial returns, even if the plan works to perfection. 

 To keep cash flowing in to fund those investments, the chairman has propped up profit margins by trimming costs in consumer long-distance and other stagnant businesses. The company has been quietly eliminating jobs in those units since last fall, but the full scope of this year's cuts was kept under wraps until yesterday's earnings announcement. 

 New Jersey is home to 23,442 AT&T employees, the most of any state, so the impact of the job cuts will be greatest here. Most of the 6,200 jobs to be shed are middle-management positions - Communications Workers of America officials have been told that 255 union members will be affected. 

 Those employees whose jobs are on the line have already been notified, the company said, although some were told as late as Monday. 

 Roughly a third to a half have already left the payroll, said AT&T spokesman Burke Stinson. The rest will leave through the end of the year. 

 ''If you're looking at our profile over the next several years, I'd say there are fewer white collars and fewer silk collars, namely executives," Stinson said. 

 AT&T earned $1.732 billion in the first quarter, or 53 cents a share on a diluted basis, which matched analysts' estimates. The per-share figure represents a decline from last year, when earnings were $1.717 billion, or 61 cents a share. The drop was due in part to additional shares issued in the acquisition of Tele-Communications Inc. 

 The company said it expects to earn $1.80 to $1.85 a share for the year, down from its previous forecast of $1.89 to $1.94 a share. 

 Still, AT&T argued that it is delivering on its blueprint - excluding the consumer business, company revenue is growing at a rate of 12 percent, Armstrong told analysts in a conference call. 

 But that's a big exception. 

 Revenue in consumer services, the company's core long-distance business, fell 5.6 percent to $5.1 billion from the same quarter a year ago 

 AT&T had expected sales in the unit to drop as much as 5 percent for the year. 

 But new technology such as Internet-routed phone calls, cutthroat competition in the industry and the company's strategy to shed low-volume callers have pushed the forecast to a 5 percent to 7 percent decline. It could fall even more if regulatory changes are adopted on access fees that local phone companies charge to complete long-distance calls. 

 AT&T's largest unit, business services, posted quarterly revenue of $7.1 billion, up 6 percent over a year ago. But Armstrong acknowledged that turmoil in its sales staff had resulted in a poorer performance than expected. 

 Among other things, the company sent some of its sales staff to Concert, its joint venture with British Telecom, and emphasized data products over voice services. Along the way, some of its relationships with top accounts frayed. 

 ''It's had a greater impact than expected," Armstrong said. 

 The company's overall revenue for the quarter was $15.84 billion, an increase of 12.3 percent from $14.97 billion a year ago. 

 CHART: A BIG HIT 

Document nsl0000020010808dw5300o12




MONEY
GLUM FORECAST HURTS AT&T'S STOCK NEW QUESTIONS RAISED ON AMBITIOUS REVAMP 

The Associated Press 
622 words
3 May 2000
Times-Picayune
NOTP
English
© 2000 The Times Picayune.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights reserved.  

AT&T's stock slid 14 percent Tuesday as the company issued its first profit warning under chief executive C. Michael Armstrong, fueling worries about whether his radical remake of the nation's largest long-distance company will succeed. 

The disappointing forecast, which came as AT&T posted first- quarter results that met most expectations, dampened the enthusiasm created by last week's initial public offering of $10.6 billion worth of stock in the company's wireless business. 

In fact, shares of the new AT&T Wireless Group also fell Tuesday even as three major brokerages initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" recommendation. 

Predictably, price wars in consumer long-distance ranked high among the culprits that prompted AT&T's revised outlook. 

Job cuts in that unit are already a major part of Armstrong's plan to cut $2 billion in costs during 2000, and the company reported Tuesday that 6,200 workers were notified in the first quarter that their positions are being eliminated, mostly in long-distance. 

It wasn't clear, however, whether the worsening backdrop for long- distance will lead to even more aggressive cost-cutting in that unit. Still, since cost cuts totaled only $300 million in the first quarter, there would seem to be plenty of pain to come this year. 

"We're not going to speculate on job cuts, although we're certainly going to focus on the cost infrastructure of all legacy businesses," said chief financial officer Charles Noski, referring to AT&T's traditional telephone operations. 

More unexpected than the troubles in consumer long-distance was the weakness AT&T reported in the far more profitable business of providing long-distance service to companies and other high-volume users, as well as the revelation of regulatory delays in the company's purchase of cable provider MediaOne. 

The discouraging update raised new questions about AT&T's ambitious bid to become a new-age communications company, highlighted by an investment of more than $100 billion to buy and upgrade cable systems for telephone calls and high-speed Internet services. 

Investors, already slightly dubious about whether a company so large can pull off such a dramatic transformation, wasted no time in trashing the stock. AT&T fell $7.12 1/2 per share to $41.87 1/2, finishing only a shade above its 52-week low, while AT&T Wireless fell $3.25 a share to $32, also on the New York Stock Exchange. 

In a conference call after Tuesday's profit report, AT&T said it now expects to produce full-year operating profits of between $1.80 and $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94. 

In the first three months of this year, AT&T earned $1.73 billion, or 53 cents a share, excluding one-time factors and some ownership interests that produced a net profit of $1.74 billion, or 54 cents a share, for the quarter. 

The operating profit matched the 53 cents expected by most analysts, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

In last year's first quarter, AT&T posted an operating profit of $1.72 billion, but the per-share breakdown amounted to a heftier 61 cents because the company had not yet issued an avalanche of new stock in its purchase of cable provider Tele-Communications Inc. After one-time items, AT&T's net income totaled $1.08 billion, or 38 cents a share, in the first quarter of 1999.  

Document notp000020010808dw5300mop


 Business 
 MONEYLINE 

 Willow Bay, Stuart Varney, Greg Clarkin, Ceci Rodgers, Fred Katayama, Wolf Blitzer, Bob Beard, Kitty Pilgrim, Susan Lisovicz, Bruce Francis 
8,356 words
3 May 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  Tonight on MONEYLINE, nearly $1 billion a minute in value demolished today on Wall Street -- stocks across the board slammed again. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  What sent investors scrambling to the exits? More evidence of a white-hot economy and one all-consuming fear that Alan Greenspan will turn militant to rein in growth. 

 BAY: The man behind the most powerful chip maker on the planet and the top Dow performer this year: Intel chief Craig Barrett. 

 VARNEY: And serious trouble in toyland -- eToys (URL: http://www.etoys.com/) , from darling to dud. Can a new Madison Avenue blitz give this toy story a happy ending. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, ADVERTISEMENT) 

 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Visit eToys summer shop, and it will come to you. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 ANNOUNCER: This is the MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Willow Bay and Stuart Varney. 

 VARNEY: Good evening, everyone. May 3, 1999, the Dow cracked 11,000 for the very first time. 

 BAY: Exactly one year later, the blue chips have gone nowhere, today trading below that milestone. The Dow tumbled 250 points as stocks suffered  another big, broad-based decline. The only consolation: the market managed to close off its lows for the day. But that doesn`t mean Wall Street has dispelled the potent fear that sparked sell-off in the first place: fear of the Fed. 

 Greg Clarkin reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Skittish investors ran for cover as interest rate fears spread on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Traders trimmed their holdings ahead of critical economic data 

 due out tomorrow and Friday that`s widely expected to show inflationary pressures building. Investors will be looking for rate-hike signals in Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan`s comments before a banking conference in Chicago tomorrow morning. 

 Dragging on the Dow today, financial and techs. American Express (URL: http://www.americanexpress.com/) and J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) lost ground, as did Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com) and IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) . 

 And the recent sell-off may have further to go. 

 CHARLES WHITE, AVATAR ASSOCIATES: I think if we get a sense that the Fed is going to do 50 basis points and we don`t have clarity on whether that`s going to be the end, I think you`ve got more downside to follow. 

 CLARKIN: Goldman Sachs (URL: http://www.gs.com/) downgraded the retail sector, citing expectations for a slowdown in consumer spending in the second half of the year. Target and Tiffany`s were two of Goldman`s victims, as was Dow component Wal*Mart (URL: http://www.wal-mart.com/) . That provided a catalyst for some of the  selling. 

 But one Wall Street expert believes the markets are in the midst of something more serious than a short-term sell-off. 

 TOM GALLAGHER, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: I think that we are, by definition, in a bear market, and I think that, you know, once you get to the 20 percent factor in the Nasdaq, I think by definition we`re in a bear market. I think that most people are now rethinking the possibility that  if you keep buying the dip and you make money. 

 CLARKIN: The Nasdaq was pulled down by a 40 percent crash in Novell (URL: http://www.Novell.com/) . The business software maker warns second quarter profits would fall  short of expectations, blaming competition from Windows 2000 and Linux (URL: http://www.valinux.com/) . Novell lost almost seven today and was off more than 73 percent for the year. 

 Also weighing on the Nasdaq, semiconductor stocks. The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index lost more than 3 1/2 percent today. The biggest contributors to that slump, Rambus (URL: http://www.rambus.com/) and Teradyne  (URL: http://www.teradyne.com/) . 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: And traders here at the New York Stock exchange were still reeling from yesterday`s profit warning from AT&T. One trader said it has really spooked the market. And between that and Friday`s employment report, in his words, it`s bunker time. It`s time to lay low and see where the economic figures come in -- Willow. 

 BAY: Bunker time. A rebound occurred late in the day. How are you accounting for that? 

 CLARKIN: Actually, it`s interesting, Willow, a lot of folks on the time were not exactly encouraged by that. A number of gentlemen said, basically, that was attributed to more technical factors, and he didn`t really get a sense that things kind of turned a corner late in the day. More or less, they did see some buying, though they base it, again, kind of on purely technical factors in a market not real kind of a shift in sentiment at all. 

 BAY: No real positive signs from that rebound. 

 CLARKIN: Not at all. 

 BAY: Greg Clarkin, thank you. 

 Yesterday`s sell-off in the Dow centered on two stocks: AT&T (URL: http://www.att.com/) and Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) . But today, all but five of the blue chips ended in the red. Among the Dow losers: IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) , down more than three, AT&T, off again after a huge tumble yesterday; Home Depot (URL: http://www.homedepot.com/) , McDonald`s (URL: http://www.mcdonalds.com/) , Disney (URL: http://www.disney.com/) , all down more  than two. On the Nasdaq, Internet names, including DoubleClick (URL: http://www.doubleclick.net) and Go2Net (URL: http://www.go2net.com/) fell sharply. Apple (URL: http://www.apple.com/) , Seagate Technology (URL: http://www.seagate.com/) and Veritas Software (URL: http://www.veritas.com/) lower as well. 

 VARNEY: Investors were clearly nervous ahead of two economic reports that are due out tomorrow and Friday. Now they were also rattled by two reports out today, showing an economy still on a tear. Factory orders in March jumped more than 2 percent, way more than expected, after zero growth in February. And the Fed`s Beige Book -- that`s a regional economic survey of the economy -- showed solid growth, and it noting that -- quote -- employment costs remained under pressure and appeared to intensify in the last two months" -- end quote. The report also says recent stock market volatility had not had an impact on economic activity, though it had altered expectations. The two reports set off a fury of speculation that the Fed may do something at the next meeting that it hasn`t done in five years, that is hike interest rates by a half point. 

 Ceci Rodgers reports from Chicago. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CECI RODGERS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The day began with strong economic data on the nation`s factories and ended with reports on intensifying wage pressures in the Federal Reserve`s Beige Book. Some regions reported severe worker shortages. For example, a San Francisco retailer reported getting only two applications for over 20 job openings at a new store. 

 The Beige Book added fuel to speculation that Fed policy makers will likely raise interest rates by more than a quarter point at its upcoming meeting. 

 KATHLEEN CAMILLI, TUCKER ANTHONY: I think we are reaching a point where the economy could be moving into an overheating phase, which is why the Federal Reserve must move forward. 

 RODGERS: Bond prices fell, the 30-year bond down 1 1/2 and the 10-year note down 3/4 of a full point, sending the 10-year yield to highest level in nearly two months. 

 Although the Fed has pushed the overnight federal funds rate higher five times over the past 10 months, the moves have done little thus far to cool off the economy. 

 New York Fed bank president William McDonough said he sees signs of imbalance and strain in the economy, behind hinting he would support rate hike. In light of McDonough`s hawkish comments, traders are nervously awaiting Fed Chairman Greenspan`s Thursday morning speech in Chicago. 

 ANTHONY CRESCENZI, MILLER TABAK & CO.: There`s some thought that he might warn the market, because in the past, Greenspan, when he`s shifted his emphasis to 50 basis-point changes, he`s given a warning, and there are like Wayne Angell or Alan Blind (ph), a former Fed member, sort of saying that Greenspan will give us a warning. So tomorrow is the first opportunity. 

 RODGERS (on camera): But Fed watchers say, in spite of mounting inflation concerns, the Fed is likely too hang tight on interest rates until it gets more key data, including Friday`s unemployment report and inflation reports on producer and consumer prices, all due out before the Fed`s May 16 meeting. 

 Ceci Rodgers, CNN Financial News, Chicago. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: All right, let`s take a quick look at when those key reports are due out ahead of the Fed meeting. Numbers on productivity and the April job market, they`re out tomorrow and Friday. As for next week: retail sales in April, they come out, as well as the producer price index. A report on industrial production is set for release the day before the Fed meeting, and the consumer price index is due out the day of that all-important Fed meeting. 

 BAY: Coming up on MONEYLINE, Bestfoods (URL: http://www.bestfoods.com/) turns down an offer from Unilever (URL: http://www.unilever.com/) , but investors are still betting there will be a deal. 

 VARNEY: Plus GM (URL: http://www.gm.com/) loses traction after running into a downgrade. We`ll tell you about that and the day`s other big movers. 

 BAY: And former Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin returns to Washington to change minds in Congress over a landmark trade deal with China. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: There is one bright spot in today`s sell-off and that`s food stocks. The group moved higher on an $18 billion takeover bid for Bestfoods. Unilever is now giving Bestfoods a Thursday evening deadline to reconsider its takeover offer, which the maker of Hellmann`s mayonnaise and Knorr soups firmly rejected last night. But investors are betting that the two companies will eventually walk down the aisle. Shares of Bestfoods soared nearly 11 points today, Unilever down more than two. 

 More on that from Fred Katayama. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): They have not gotten into a food fight yet, but the maker of Lipton tea is going after the maker of  Thomas` English muffins. Unilever says it has not ruled out the possibility of raising its $18.3 billion unsolicited offer for Bestfoods, or making it a hostile one. 

 Bestfoods rejected Unilever`s offer, calling it "financially inadequate," even after Unilever raised its cash bid for Bestfoods to $66 a share, a 31 percent premium over Tuesday`s closing price. 

 DICK SHOEMATE, CHMN. & CEO, BESTFOODS: We`re in a real industry that is currently out of favor. It`s not appropriate to take a one-time spot price and take away from our shareholders the opportunity to reap the rewards of what has been a very high performance company. 

 KATAYAMA: Although it outperforms the industry, Bestfoods` stock has sunk along with those of its rivals. But today, its stock soared as much as 27 percent as investors signaled they expect to see a deal between the two giants. But that only takes Bestfoods` stock to where it was last November, so the company`s board is unwilling to let the company go. Big shareholders of Bestfoods say the pair would make a good fit, but they want to see a higher stock price. 

 PETER SCHOFIELD, JOHN HANCOCK: And as much as I sympathize with the company trying to hold out for a few more dollars here, I think anything approaching the $70 level or higher we`d be satisfied with. 

 KATAYAMA: Bestfoods argues it can do just fine by itself. Its vast overseas business helps keep it ahead of the pack. 

 JOHN MCMILLIN, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: I feel like the defense of Bestfoods, that we`re outperforming our peer group, is just not a good enough one. The peer group is pathetic. The industry needs consolidation. Let`s get it on. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 KATAYAMA: Analysts note Unilever has deep pockets, and they predict the two sides will reach a deal if Unilever hikes its bid to more than $70 a share. Bestfoods has until tomorrow to reconsider the current 

 offer of $66 a share -- Stuart and Willow. VARNEY: The betting is then that if they up the offer to $70 or more, Bestfoods bites, takes it. 

 KATAYAMA: That`s what several institutional shareholders I spoke to said, yes. 

 VARNEY: And they`re the ones with clout, OK. 

 KATAYAMA: They`ve got the money. 

 VARNEY: They have. Fred Katayama, thank you. 

 Well, the hope of further consolidation in the food industry sent other food stocks sharply higher today. Campbell Soup (URL: http://www.campbellsoups.com/) , Quaker Oats (URL: http://www.quakeroats.com/) both soared more than three points a  piece. Hershey Foods and Sara Lee gained more than one. Nabisco Holdings (URL: http://www.nabisco.com/) up 3/4 on the day. 

 BAY: Checking tonight`s MONEYLINE "Movers," GM (URL: http://www.gm.com/) slid more than 5 1/4. Lehman Brothers (URL: http://www.lehman.com/) downgraded the automaker to outperform from a buy rating. The firm said that investors should use the G.M./GMH exchange as an opportunity to buy Ford Motor (URL: http://www.ford.com/) . Global Crossing gained 1 1/2. The underwater cable system reported a narrower than expected loss in its first quarter. That stock down nearly 47 percent from its 52-week  high. And Aether Systems (URL: http://www.aethersystems.com/) soared 13. The wireless data services firm is joining with Visa to develop systems so consumers can pay their bills from cell phones, pagers, and Palm (URL: http://www.palm.com/) Pilots. 

 VARNEY: In other corporate news, we have another dot-com disappointment. The German media conglomerate Bertelsmann  will indefinitely postpone the initial public offering of its online bookstore. Bol.com was set to go public in the next few weeks, but Bertelsmann has scrapped those plans, blaming the recent decline in Internet stocks. Bertelsmann also holds a majority stake in U.S. Internet bookseller barnesandnoble.com (URL: http://www.bn.com/) . 

 The London Stock Exchange and Germany`s Deutsche Boerse have agreed to merge. Europe`s two biggest stock markets will hook up with the Nasdaq stock market to create a separate exchange for technology stocks. The new market will be called IX. It will be managed from London and will operate in Frankfurt. 

 BAY: Coming up, the man behind this year`s best-performing Dow stock, Craig Barrett, the CEO of Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) . 

 VARNEY: His expectations for meeting chip demand and how tech stocks could perform amid higher interest rates. 

 You`re watching MONEYLINE on CNN. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: In tonight`s "Tech Watch," an impressive year for Intel. While the Dow industrials are down nearly 9 percent on the year, Intel, one of the newest members, is up 44 percent, the Dow`s best performer year to date. The chip maker recently announced a strong jump in first-quarter profits and said it should be able to keep up with chip demand in the second half of the year. Another goal: to bridge the digital divide. Today, CEO Craig Barrett met with other tech leaders and the Reverend Jesse Jackson to discuss ways to include all Americans in the digital revolution. Joining us now, Craig Barrett. 

 Mr. Barrett, welcome. 

 CRAIG BARRETT, CEO, INTEL: Pleasure to be here. 

 BAY: How do you ensure -- the tech community has taken a real leadership role here, but you`re a man of action. How do you ensure that this moves beyond the conference state, the discussion phase? How do you see to it that expertise and equipment winds up where it`s most needed? 

 BARRETT: Well, a lot of us in the high-tech industry have been very involved in education. The conference we had with Reverend Jackson today 

 is really how to get education to all levels of the community, to all young children regardless of race, color, their economic development, what have you. 

 BAY: So how and when will we see action here? 

 BARRETT: Well, I think you`re seeing action. The discussion today was merely a exchange of ideas. You`re seeing companies like Intel, Hewlett- Packard, Cisco, Covad (URL: http://www.covad.com/) , and others are making contributions of equipment to the educational community, are training tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of teachers, putting in computer clubhouses in underserved communities. All that`s happening while we speak. It`s not an issue of when, it`s happening now. 

 BAY: Intel dominates the PC chip business. I`d like you to give us your sense of what the future holds here. We`ve seen some mixed reports. Microsoft indicated one thing, some researchers indicated another. From where you sit, how would you characterize PC demand growth moving forward? 

 BARRETT: Well, we were a bit surprised on the strength of PC demand in the first half of this year, and I really think it`s due to a number of factors. One is the Internet is being discovered everywhere around the world. Places like Japan you`re seeing PC growth of 35 percent per year, for example. All of the world`s economies are reasonably aligned and reasonably strong right now, so there is good economic growth everywhere. 

 And you`re just seeing companies like Ford, American Airlines, Intel, others start to give free PCs to all their employees so that they  can participate in the Internet revolution. I think when you take the total of all of these things, we`re probably going to see a stronger than expected Internet growth, a stronger than expected computing growth over the next several years. 

 BAY: The market was hit hard today by fear of the Fed. Conventional wisdom is that techs, tech stocks are immune to rate hikes. It sounds like perhaps you think that`s true, that tech spending will continue to be strong despite a raising rate environment? 

 BARRETT: I`m just looking at the strength of the Internet, the strength of Internet commerce. To me, that kind of supersedes rate hikes and interest changes. We`ve seen in the Japan economy in the last year, for example, a rather stagnant economy. The only real strength has been the high tech sector. I think that`s the sort of thing you`re going to be seeing around the world. 

 BAY: As we noted, you`re stock has been the best performer on the Dow this  year, it weathered the sell-off quite well. What does the future hold for Intel? Is it a bargain at 119? 

 BARRETT: I think it`s always a bargain. You know, we are down a bit for the year, but I think we`re looking at strong demand for our products, we`re looking at a seasonally strong second half. We`re looking at being really part of this Internet revolution. So I`m very optimistic about our prospects. 

 BAY: Craig Barrett, thank you for joining us, and best of luck with your efforts to bridge the digital divide. Thank you. 

 Amid today`s tech tumble, Intel shares lost more than $2 to close at just over $119. Over the past year, the chip maker has jumped more than 88 percent. 

 VARNEY: Coming up on MONEYLINE, past and present treasury chiefs make their case for a key trade agreement with China. 

 BAY: And the growing debate over tough action against protesters on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques. Our news digest is next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: As you might imagine, there were a fair number of 52- week lows made today, and they include: Adaptec (URL: http://www.adaptec.com/) , American Eagle -- American Eagle Outfitters (URL: http://www.ae-outfitters.com/) that is --AT&T, H&R Block (URL: http://www.handrblock.com/) , and Novell (URL: http://www.Novell.com/) . 

 First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton tonight joining the growing opposition to a crackdown against protesters on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques. 

 More about that now from Wolf Blitzer in the "MONEYLINE News Digest" --Wolf. 

 WOLF BLITZER, CNNfn ANCHOR: Thanks, Stuart. 

 Mrs. Clinton today released a statement saying she opposes U.S. Navy bombing exercises on Vieques and calling on the Pentagon to resolve the situation peacefully. U.S. law enforcement officials are standing by to move in against demonstrators who object to the bombing range on the island. Two U.S. representatives today joined those protesters. They are Luis Gutierrez of Illinois and Nydia Velazquez of New York. Gutierrez says he`s willing to face arrest if a sweep occurs. 

 In the Netherlands, the Lockerbie bombing trial opened today, with two Libyan defendants pleading not guilty. Their lawyers argued that Palestinian militants triggered the bomb which brought down a Pan Am jet over Lockerbie, Scotland in 1988, killing 270 people. 

 Also today, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright lambasted her staff over a missing laptop computer packed with government secrets. Speaking to state department staff worldwide, Albright said she`s furious. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 MADELEINE ALBRIGHT, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: I don`t care how skilled you are as a diplomat, how brilliant you may be at meetings or how creative as an administrator, if you are not professional about security, you are a failure. (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BLITZER: Among the top-secret information now misplaced, some of the department`s methods and sources for gathering intelligence. 

 And one of America`s most influential Roman Catholic leaders is reported this evening by church officials to be near death. New York Cardinal John O`Connor has been ill since undergoing brain surgery last summer to remove a tumor. 

 I`ll have those stories and much more on "THE WORLD TODAY." That`s at 8:00 p.m. Eastern, 5:00 Pacific -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Wolf Blitzer, with the "MONEYLINE News Digest." Thank you, Wolf. 

 BAY: The Clinton administration calling in its big guns for a House showdown over trade with China. Among the big names making the administration`s case, past and present secretaries of the treasury. 

 Bob Beard reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BOB BEARD, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A House vote on China trade privileges within weeks, and the administration bringing out the heavy hitters to arm twist for every vote, including former Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin. 

 ROBERT RUBIN, FMR. TREASURY SECRETARY: The decision to reject the PNTR could be a major reversal for our country`s economic future. 

 WILLIAM DALEY, COMMERCE SECRETARY: One of the issues of greet concern to members of Congress is whether or not China can make the commitments that they`ve made under this agreement stick. 

 BEARD: Daley unveiled a new effort to make them stick: a rapid response team of trade officials, deadlines for investigating market access and programs to monitors searches in Chinese imports. 

 The White House now endorses a congressional proposal creating a commission to monitor Chinese human rights. Some say that`s not enough. 

 REP. FRANK WOLF (R), VIRGINIA: Giving China MFN or PNTR will not change them, just as giving it to Nazi Germany would not have changed the leaders of the Nazi Germany. 

 BEARD: The administrations says year-to-year approval of normal trade relations hasn`t improved human rights in China. Last year, Washington agreed to China`s entry into the World Trade Organization. In exchange, China agreed to reduce barriers for a host of U.S. industries, from agriculture to telecommunications. But that agreement is contingent on permanent trade relations. Two-hundred eighteen House votes are needed to win. 

 REP. ROBERT MATSUI (D), CALIFORNIA: We hope, as Democrats, get between 70 and 80, and I think the Republicans are looking at anywhere from  140 and 160, and so we feel that we`ll have a sufficient number. 

 BEARD: Capitol Hill veterans say the business community`s multimillion-dollar lobbying effort for trade with China is the most intense since  NAFTA. 

 (on camera): And the arm twisting promises to get even tougher. Dozen of business leaders plan to fly here to lobby undecided members just before the House vote. 

 Bob Beard, CNN Financial News, Washington. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: And MONEYLINE continues in just a moment. 

 BAY: Stay with us. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s headlines, another white-knuckle ride on Wall Street. Interest rate jitters wipe out more than $300 billion in market value. A day after settling its cable clash with Time Warner, Disney proves just how important its quiz show hit is to the bottom line. But will Disney`s final answer satisfy investors? And Wall Street used to value this company at more than $10 billion. Now, it`s worth less than 1/10 of that. A special report on eToys and its attempt at a comeback. 

 BAY: First, more on our top story: The threat of higher interest rates may not be reining in the economy, but it`s continuing to do a number on the stock market. Stocks staged a full scale retreat today as investors braced for the worst at the Fed`s next meeting, what some fear could be a half-point rate hike. In the words of one analyst, "Nobody wants to play Russian roulette with the Fed." 

 That reluctance to make bets on the market made for an ugly day at the big board. The Dow industrials were down as many as 331 points before recovering slightly to end down 250. Of the 30 Dow stocks, only five gained ground. 

 Today`s Dow dogs included American Express (URL: http://www.americanexpress.com/) , J.P. Morgan, General Electric (URL: http://www.ge.com/) , General Motors, and McDonald`s. The Nasdaq also came off its lows, cutting its losses by more than half. It closed down 78 points. 

 VARNEY: What the Fed does or does not do could depend on one very important economic report, the April employment figures. It hits the market on Friday, and it has some traders worried the Fed could be forced to act before its meeting in less than two weeks. 

 Kitty Pilgrim has more on rate anxiety, and the industries that are vulnerable if the Fed moves aggressively. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 KITTY PILGRIM, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Will they shop or will they not? And if they do, what will that mean for interest rates? That sums up the main debate on Wall Street today. 

 The opening argument, Goldman Sachs downgrading retailers, saying consumer spending will slow. Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette (URL: http://www.dlj.com) disagreeing. 

 Either way, nobody was buying. 

 BOB BUCHANAN, A.G. EDWARDS: Our concern is not that consumer spending is slowing. It`s really the flip of that. We think that consumer spending is very, very strong. The economy as a whole is white-hot, and we think that rates are continuing to head north. 

 And in that situation, I don`t think you want to be overweighted in this sector. 

 PILGRIM: Retailers across the board took a hit. Blue chip tech stocks were not safe either after weak earnings news from software maker Novell. Interest rate-sensitive financial stocks were also vulnerable. 

 At 2:00 p.m., the Fed`s Beige Book poured gasoline on the fire sale. The report said wage pressures across the nation are intensifying due to worker shortages. 

 LISA CULLEN, MERRILL LYNCH: Well, the rate pressures that we`ve seen have been really creeping up over the last year or so, and our perception so far has been that corporations are going to take it on the chin, that earnings are going to -- to -- you know, margins are going to be squeezed as a result and earnings are going to reflect that. PILGRIM: Interest rate heebie-jeebies only intensify as the week wears on. Key economic reports are due out on Friday. Until then, investors seem likely to play it safe and weight before going on a shopping spree. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 PILGRIM: Now, many Fed-phobic investors were taking heart that Mr. Greenspan would go easy on rate hikes because of market volatility. But not so. According to the Beige Book released today, one of the chief findings, volatility in the financial markets has failed to cool  off the economy -- Stuart, Willow. 

 VARNEY: Failed to cool off the economy. We`ll remember that. 

 Kitty Pilgrim, thanks. 

 BAY: Even after today`s late rebound, many stocks were still deep in the red, and the selling cut into both big and small caps. The S&P 500 tumbled more than 2 percent. On the big board, there were more than two losers for every winner: 34 stocks hit new 52-week highs; nearly twice as many hit new lows. The Russell 2000 small-cap stock index sank nearly 2 percent. 

 When stocks go south, bonds usually benefit, but not today. Inflation jitters were just as damaging to bonds with the 10-year note down 23/32. The 30-year bond fell almost a point-and-a-half, the yield at 6.11 percent. 

 VARNEY: Disney has been one of the top Dow performers of the year on hopes that its bottom line will improve. The company didn`t just meet that expectation after the bell today: It blew it away. 

 Disney made $369 million, 18 cents a share, beating the street`s estimates by four cents. Fresh from its very public cease-fire with Time Warner, Disney didn`t fare well on Wall Street today. The stock was down more than 2 1/4 points. But in moderately active after-hours trading, the stock gained back a dollar. 

 As Susan Lisovicz reports, it doesn`t take a millionaire to figure out what lifted Disney`s profits. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, "WHO WANTS TO BE A MILLIONAIRE?") 

 (APPLAUSE) 

 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I want to win! 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Finding the key  to the turnaround to the "Magic Kingdom" is as easy as some of the questions on "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?" 

 REGIS PHILBIN, ABC HOST: I like the Disney stock, to you the truth. It`s been on the move. Ever since the "Millionaire" show came on it`s been going up. 

 LISOVICZ: Indeed, Disney`s stock, a component of the Dow industrials, has soared 40 percent year to date while the index is down nearly 9 percent over the same period. Disney`s blockbuster quiz show is clearly a driver in Disney`s turnaround. It`s propelled ABC to the No. 1 network in primetime, which gives it the privilege of charging more for its commercials. 

 JESSICA REIF-COHEN, MERRILL LYNCH: I have to give Disney a huge amount of credit for exploiting "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?" It`s very unusual for a game show to be one hour, normally a half-an-hour show. And for them to put it on three times a week, that`s like having six sitcoms. So they`ve done a -- really a terrific job in getting maximum use out of this one show. 

 LISOVICZ: A strong economy has also boosted ad sales at Disney`s cable channels, ESPN and the Disney Channel. And it`s also Credited with record attendance at Disney theme parks. 

 ROBIN DIEDRICH, EDWARD JONES: The theme parks are strong basically because the economy is doing well. The wealth effect is having people vacation a bit more. And there`s supposed to be a special added attraction of the millennium celebration continuing to go on at Disney. 

 LISOVICZ: But Disney has two major weak spots: video and DVD sales, and consumer products. 

 JILL KUTRICK, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Their ability to turn around the consumer products business and the home video business is definitely built on a strategic plan to capitalize on their technology cycle, DVD, consumer products, trying to relaunch Mickey Mouse in a celebrity campaign, as well as try to move more up-market in terms of their products. 

 LISOVICZ (on camera): Disney`s turnaround is contingent upon the continued success of "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?" and improvement in its film division. 

 The studio`s next big-budget movie is "Dinosaur," but chairman and CEO Michael Eisner told analysts in a conference call it won`t be another "lion King." 

 Susan Lisovicz, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Also on Disney`s plate today, continuation of its feud with Time Warner, parent of this network. Earlier this afternoon, the Federal Communications Commission ruled that Time Warner Cable violated an FCC rule when it blocked ABC stations on several of its cable systems during May sweeps. 

 FCC rules state that cable companies must carry television stations throughout the duration of sweeps periods. Time Warner, in a statement issued later, said it objected to the ruling because it, in its view, it gave broadcasters more power rather than less, adding that the company didn`t -- quote -- "think that was the intent of Congress" -- end quote -- and vowed to pursue further review of this order. 

 BAY: Also from the FTC, merger approval for two other media giants: The FTC clearing the way for Viacom (URL: http://www.viacom.com/) to close its purchase of CBS (URL: http://www.cbs.com/) , and the two companies say they will complete the transaction on Thursday. 

 But one requirement before the deal is closed. The FTC said Viacom has 12 months to shed UPN. Viacom had lobbied for a waiver to retain the network. 

 Coming up, a chill wind blows across the country`s retailers. 

 VARNEY: We`ll tell you why some on Wall Street forecast a slowdown in the shopping aisles. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) BAY:  Martha Stewart (URL: http://www.marthastewart.com/) cooked up a better-than-expected profit in the first quarter, and today her stock was in full bloom. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia earned $5 1/2 million in the quarter, or 11 cents per share. Analysts were looking for a profit of just four cents. 

 The media empire cited a strong jump in publishing revenue at its Hallmark magazine, "Martha Stewart Living." Internet and direct commerce sales nearly doubled in the first quarter, pushing revenues up more than 30 percent over last year. 

 Today, shares of "Martha Stewart Living" jumped more than four to 20. But its stock is off more than 57 percent from its high, and is now trading just $2 above its $18 IPO price. 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s "MONEYLINE Movers," Coca-Cola (URL: http://www.cocacola.com/) gained more than two on news of a $64 million marketing-deal with America Online. Novell sank nearly seven -- that`s about 40 percent -- after the business software maker late yesterday warned of disappointing earnings. Today, several brokerage firms downgraded the stock. AT&T slipped another two points, continuing its slide after the company scaled back revenue and profit expectations for the year. Today, it hit its lowest level since October 1998. That drop has also given AT&T`s market value a real haircut: Ma Bell`s market cap is now lower than that of SBC Communications (URL: http://www.sbc.com/) , which of course is a Baby Bell. 

 BAY: In tonight`s sector focus: retailers. A tug-of-war between two brokerage houses pulled on the sector today. Goldman Sachs downgraded 13 major retailers, including the world`s largest, Wal*Mart (URL: http://www.wal-mart.com/) . Also getting a thumbs down from Goldman: Target (URL: http://www.target.com/) , Costco (URL: http://www.costco.com/) , Kohl`s (URL: http://www.kohls.com/) , as well as Federated Department Stores, May, and upscale retailers Neiman Marcus and Tiffany (URL: http://www.tiffany.com/) . The reason: Goldman says anticipation of slower spending growth. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 GEORGE STRACHAN, GOLDMAN SACHS & CO.: Companies like Wal-Mart, Costco, Kohl`s and Target will be the leaders in the retail sector. They have the best organic growth prospects. They have scale. Some of them have global expanse opportunity. We see no problems here with the fundamentals of these companies. We just feel that the relative P/E`s could be at risk of compression in a less buoyant spending environment. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: But rival firm Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette was quick to object to the Goldman downgrades. DLJ called weakness in the sector an opportunity to buy and suggested picking up retailers with accelerated earnings, like Circuit City, Best Buy and Staples. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 GARY BALTER, DONALDSON, LUFKIN & JENRETTE: The market has to appreciate that until Mr. Greenspan finally determines what he`s going to do with interest rates, retail is not going to outperform, for the near term, but  in that time, when the stocks go down, buy. So if Circuit City`s (URL: http://www.circuitcity.com/) down, if you Best Buy`s down, absolutely you want the be there. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: Despite the upbeat tone from DLJ, investors shed retail holdings. Wal-Mart down more than four. Target down more than five. Tiffany fell nearly 4 1/12. Costco shed over 2 1/2. And Kohl`s down almost four. Up next for retailers: chain store sales for April. Those are due out tomorrow. 

 VARNEY: All right, are you ready for Dow 9,700? Our next guest says it`s a real possibility again. 

 BAY: Money manager Jerry Castellini joins us next with his predictions on how low the market can go. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Europe`s single currency is at an all-time low against the dollar. The euro sank below 90 cents in trading today for the first time ever, a 25 percent drop from its high set just after the currency`s 1999 debut. Economists at Hypo Bank in Germany can`t find any explanation for 

 the euro`s decline, saying the growth in the European Union has been doing well, but the markets aren`t paying attention. European governments and bank officials are sticking by their new currency, insisting a healthy economy in the region will eventually help the euro reverse course. 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s "MONEYLINE Focus": the stock market trying to figure out the Fed. The recent rebound on Wall Street has been abruptly cut short by worries that Alan Greenspan could get even tougher on inflation. And few stocks seem immune, even those tech stocks. The great divide between the Dow and the Nasdaq no longer exists. The Dow is down nearly 9 percent so far this year. And after a volatile two months, the Nasdaq is down by almost the same amount. 

 Joining me now from Chicago with his outlook for stocks and the Fed, Jerry Castellini, money manager at Castleark Management. 

 Jerry, welcome back to MONEYLINE. 

 JERRY CASTELLINI, CASTLEARK MANAGEMENT: Thank you, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: I believe you`re looking for the Dow to move down at some point fairly soon to the 9,700 level. Make that case for us. 

 CASTELLINI: Well, Stuart, if you look at last correction, it was tough, and compares with the one we had after the Russian debt default and Long Term Capital`s demise a couple of years ago. The difference, though, was after both of those big events, the Fed came in and lowered interests rates and added liquidity. In this instance, the Fed is actually working against us, and that`s not typically good, and it probably doesn`t bode well for the V-shaped recovery that a lot folks had hope for. 

 At this point, I think you`re going to see a continuation of this kind of fits-and-starts movement as investors try to pare back some of their more aggressive positions. It`s been a great run, and a lot of stocks, even if they drop back to their lows of two or three weeks ago, would still be 50, 60, 70 percent over the last year. 

 VARNEY: I`m going to raise an expression which we haven`t heard of for many, many years, and that is "stagflation," because if the Fed aggressively raises interest rates and it does indeed slow the economy, we still have inflation, could we in fact get a "stagflation" situation as the worst possible scenario, sometime around the middle of this year, later this year? 

 CASTELLINI: As usual, Stuart, you are ahead of the curve. That is probably going to be one of the terms used. You`ll probably see it talked about this summer, as the full force of the Fed`s interests race increases start to... 

 (AUDIO GAP) 

 CASTELLINI: ... time we start seeing some of the lousy CPI numbers. The combination of those two forces are going to make investors worry, because they`re going to say, I don`t think I can pay the very high multiplies anymore, and I might be at risk in earnings coming to  the end of the year or the beginning of next year. Those two forces together are kind of fall back for maybe 20 years ago in the market when you had that happening, and it`s not a good time. That`s pretty much behind a call to see a rollback to the old lows. 

 VARNEY: All right, you`ve got 20 seconds left. Can you tell us safe some havens in this upcoming problem? 

 CASTELLINI: There is one absolutely perfect area right now, and the earnings have been rebounding dramatically -- it`s the energy area. If you look at the old service companies, exploration, and even the big integrated oil companies, have done phenomenally as they bounced off of this low oil price environment. Prices at this level don`t need to  be terribly inflationary, but I think investors will gravitate back to that area as they see this is a safe haven. 

 VARNEY: All right, that`s what we`re looking for. 

 Jerry Castellini, from Castleark Management in Chicago, thanks for joining us, Jerry. Many thanks. 

 CASTELLINI: You`re welcome. Thank you. 

 BAY: Next on MONEYLINE, he launched the careers of countless musicians. 

 VARNEY: And he engineered Santana`s triumphant comeback. But now, Clive Davis is out at the record label he founded. 

 BAY: That story, plus the online retailer out to stage a triumphant comeback of its own -- eToys launching an advertising blitz. 

 Stay with us. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: A bitter controversy rocking the music industry has come to a head. Clive Davis, the executive who launched Billy Joel, Bruce Springsteen and others has been dethroned at the record label he founded, Arista. Corporate parent Bertelsmann named rap mogul L.A. Reid to the position of president and chief executive. The move comes after Davis scored a Grammy coup, managing Santana`s revival. Speculation that  Davis would be replaced had set off intense criticism within the industry. 

 VARNEY: And a very different music industry fight reached a critical point today over online music accessed through the Web site Napster. Lawyers for the heavy metal band Metallica today hand delivered the names of more than 300,000 people to Napster headquarters, they claim these people are trading Metallica songs online and violating the copyright. Metallica is suing Napster in federal court to block users from accessing the band`s music through Napster`s file-sharing software. Napster said it is reviewing the claim. Metallica`s drummer joined the lawyers  and defended the move from some critical fans. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 LARS ULRICH, METALLICA: The issue is not whether you get Metallica music through the Internet. The issue is that Napster is providing a service that give people the opportunity to steal our music. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY: The confrontation comes just days after a legal defeat for MP3.com, which offers a similar service. That news pounded the stock, down more than 60 percent this year. 

 BAY: An online pioneer produced another first today, hosting its first analysts meeting. EToys faced Wall Street with promises of profits and an expanded product line. 

 But as Bruce Francis reports, it may take more than that to recharge the stock. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): EToys can`t wait for Christmas. With investors now soured on e-tailers and hundreds of millions of dollars worth of warehouse space running far blow capacity, eToys is eager to give Wall Street a reason to believe again. So eToys is launching a summer theme national ad campaign and is now expanding its offerings to include more content and information on its Web site, hobby items and party goods. 

 TOBY LENK, CEO, ETOYS: It gives us an opportunity to totally turn key provide a solution. You have a 6-year-old, you have 20 kids coming to a birthday party, likes a certain theme -- boom, click here, party in a box on the way. 

 FRANCIS: So are profits by 2002, according to Lenk. EToys also says that going forward, marketing and advertising costs will be lower as a percentage of sales, so will the cost of processing orders, customer service, and credit card fees. And as overall sales increase, gross margins should improve, helped out by more profitable private label toys and lower shipping costs. 

 LENK: We have the DNA for profitability in terms of order size, opportunity to evolve gross margins to a higher level, and the opportunity to  leverage our huge-fixed investment up front in logistics and technology as we grow our revenue base to get the profitability. 

 FRANCIS: Many investors have run out of patience as eToy shares have been decimated, down 92 percent from their October `99 high. 

 LAUREN LEVITAN, ROBERTSON STEPHENS: We have a buy recommendation on the stock. We told investors that we think now is an opportune time for them 

 to be getting involved. The risk reward is quite favorable. 

 FRANCIS: But other analysts are holding back. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I can see the profitability coming a little sooner that I had originally expected in some of these new categories who would propel them in that direction, so I`d say we`re warming to it. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS: EToys says that it does have enough cash to get through that all  important holiday season, but it is exploring several options now for additional financing -- Willow. 

 BAY: Bruce Francis, thank you. 

 VARNEY: All right, up next, a mammoth going-away present for an executive who left his company`s stock in the tank. 

 BAY: And, "Ahead of the Curve," some of what you need to know tonight before the markets open tomorrow. 

 You are watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Here`s a preview of some of what could make news on Wall Street tomorrow. Fed chairman Alan Greenspan speaks about the future of the financial industry at the Chicago Fed conference tomorrow morning. Investors will be reading between the lines to see if he says anything on interest rate policy. More on the health of the economy with preliminary productivity results due out. Analysts expecting first quarter growth to be much slower than last period. On the earnings front: oil driller Royal Dutch (URL: http://www.shell.com/) Petroleum expected to report profits of 81 cents a share, more than double last year`s results. And Seagram (URL: http://www.seagram.com/) also due out tomorrow. The entertainment and beverage company expected to report a third quarter loss of 66 cents a share, 16 cents bigger than last year. 

 VARNEY: For the second time this week news of a failed executive walking away with a huge parting gift. Two day`s after word that Mattel had handed Jill Barad a $50 million severance package, Conseco (URL: http://www.conseco.com/) unveiled an even richer deal for chief executive Stephen Hilbert. Hilbert, who resigned last week in the face of huge losses and a collapsing stock price, got a $72.5 million going-away present. Under terms of his contract, Hilbert received five times his annual $1 million salary and five times his annual bonus, which comes out to $67.5 million. But he went home with only 49 after repaying a company loan. 

 Now, it`s been a terrible couple of years for Conseco, after the disastrous purchase of Green Tree Financial. The stock is down nearly 90 percent from more than a 50 in 1998 to just over six today. And Conseco found itself on even shakier financial footing today as Standard & Poor`s cut its debt to junk bond status. 

 BAY: That is MONEYLINE for this Wednesday. I`m Willow Bay. 

 VARNEY: And I`m Stuart Varney. Thanks for joining us, and good night from New York. "CROSSFIRE" is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other  than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user  use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of  the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as  the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw5300082


 AT&T stock plunges under  profit warning 

691 words
3 May 2000
The Journal Record
JR
English
 2000(Copyright ) 

 NEW YORK (AP) -- AT&T's stock slid 15 percent Tuesday as the company issued its first profit warning under Chief Executive C. Michael Armstrong, fueling worries about whether his radical remake of the nation's largest long-distance company will succeed. 

 The disappointing forecast, which came as AT&T posted first quarter results that met most expectations, dampened the enthusiasm created by last week's initial public offering of $10.6 billion worth of stock in the company's wireless business. 

 In fact, shares of the new AT&T Wireless Group also fell Tuesday even as three major brokerages initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" recommendation. 

 Predictably, price wars in consumer long-distance ranked high among the culprits that prompted AT&T's revised outlook. 

 Job cuts in that unit are already a major part of Armstrong's plan to cut $2 billion in costs during 2000, and the company reported Tuesday that 6,200 workers were notified in the first quarter that their positions are being eliminated, mostly in long-distance. 

 It wasn't clear, however, whether the worsening backdrop for long- distance would lead to even more aggressive cost-cutting in that unit. Still, since cost cuts totaled only $300 million in the first quarter, there would seem to be plenty of pain to come this year. 

 "We're not going to speculate on job cuts, although we're certainly going to focus on the cost infrastructure of all legacy businesses," said Chief Financial Officer Charles Noski, referring to AT&T's traditional telephone operations. 

 More unexpected than the troubles in consumer long-distance was the weakness AT&T reported in the far more profitable business of providing long-distance service to companies and other high-volume users, as well as the revelation of regulatory delays in the company's purchase of cable provider MediaOne. 

 The discouraging update raised new questions about AT&T's ambitious bid to become a new-age communications company, highlighted by an investment of more than $100 billion to buy and upgrade cable systems for telephone calls and high-speed Internet services. 

 Investors, already slightly dubious about whether a company so large can pull off such a dramatic transformation, wasted no time in trashing the stock. AT&T fell $7 per share to $42, finishing only a shade above its 52-week low, while AT&T Wireless fell $3 a share to $32.25, also on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 In a conference call following Tuesday's profit report, AT&T said it now expects to produce full-year operating profits of between $1.80 and $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94. 

 In the first three months of this year, AT&T earned $1.73 billion, or 53 cents a share, in the first three months of 1999, excluding one- time factors and the some ownership interests that produced a net profit of $1.74 billion, or 54 cents a share, for the quarter. 

 The operating profit matched the 53 cents expected by most analysts, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 In last year's first quarter, AT&T posted an operating profit of $1.72 billion, but the per-share breakdown amounted to a heftier 61 cents because the company had not yet issued an avalanche of new stock in its purchase of cable provider Tele-Communications Inc. After one-time items, AT&T's net income totaled $1.08 billion, or 38 cents a share, in the first quarter of 1999. 

 Revenues came to $15.84 billion in the latest quarter, up 5.8 percent from the combined revenues of $14.97 billion posted a year ago by AT&T and the soon-to-be acquired operations of TCI and IBM Global Network, an Internet services business. 

 Wireless revenue grew more than 40 percent from year-ago levels, while revenues from business services such as high-speed Internet grew at a high-teen rate. 

Document jr00000020010807dw53002el




Abreast of the Market
 AT&T's  Profit Warning  Reverses Gains Seen in Tech, Telecom Issues   

 By Robert O'Brien   
Dow Jones Newswires
1,522 words
3 May 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 NEW YORK -- Earnings worries soured buyers on some telecommunications and technology issues, halting the group's recent rally.   

 Shares of several of the technology names that had pushed higher in recent trading weakened considerably in the session. Adobe Systems (Nasdaq), for example, followed up Monday's 8% gain with an 11% loss, dropping 15 3/16 to 115 1/2. On Nasdaq, Terayon Communications Systems (Nasdaq), which had increased 36% Monday, fell 11 3/8 to 115 7/8 yesterday. Ariba (Nasdaq) lost almost as much yesterday as it had gained Monday, falling 9 3/8 to 74 9/16.   

 The tone for the trading session had been set by a downbeat profit outlook from telecommunications giant AT&T. The carrier posted first-quarter earnings that matched Wall Street's forecasts, but it also reduced its forecasts for profit and revenue this year, citing greater-than-expected declines in its consumer long-distance and business-services segments.   

 Shares of the stock lost 6 5/8 to 42, trading back at the lows for the year set Oct. 1.   

 With AT&T's decline "costing" it nearly 35 points, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 80.66 points, down 0.75% on the session, to finish at 10731.12.   

 The Nasdaq Composite Index finished with a bigger loss, dropping 172.63 points, off 4.36%, to end at 3785.45, and ending a recent spell of some considerable success.   

 More telling, perhaps, than the loss was the disinterest on the part of buyers reflected in the trading volumes. Trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market reached just 1.37 billion shares, its second-lightest volume total of the year.   

 "The good news is that some of the tremendous intraday volatility has been erased," said Adam Weisman, a trader at Wit SoundView Technology. "The bad news is that there are a fair number of traders out there who have taken a breather."   

 Traders also said a gap in the news cycle accounted for some of the lethargy in the session. Aside from the AT&T release, corporate America served up a pretty spare calendar of earnings statements. While investors are still interested in where interest rates are going, the important economic data don't come out until the end of this week.   

 They did have some opportunities to play off one piece of encouraging news, as crude-oil prices rose on expectations that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries won't increase production quotas at its June meeting. An output increase, of course, would have hurt pricing.   

 Shares of Chevron climbed 3 to 89 5/16, helped by some upbeat comments about the company from analysts at ABN Amro. Texaco gained 15/16 to 50 13/16.   

 Oil-service stocks also improved in the session. Halliburton rose 3 1/8 to 47 3/8. Schlumberger gained 2 9/16 to 77 9/16. Transocean Sedco Forex moved up 2 to 49 5/16.   

 Meanwhile, telecommunications stocks, following the lead of AT&T, weakened considerably. Among equipment makers, Ciena, which rose 13% Monday, fell 11 3/4 to 128 5/16 on Nasdaq. Nortel Networks lost 3 11/16 to 115 1/16. Tellabs (Nasdaq) dropped 4 1/8 to 51 11/16.   

 Shares of Novell (Nasdaq) lost 1 3/8 to 17 9/16, approaching the 52-week low of 16 1/16 reached Oct. 21. The Provo, Utah, Internet service software provider warned Wall Street that it wouldn't live up to earnings forecasts for its fiscal second quarter, which ended Sunday.   

 Bell Atlantic declined 3 11/16 to 54 3/8. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court handed down a ruling that could hurt the telecommunications service provider's hopes to keep its wholesale and retail operations intact, rather than follow a decision last year by the state Public Utility Commission ordering the company to split those operations.   

 Shares of Microsoft got caught in the technology downdraft. Investors had greeted the antitrust regulators' hopes to split the software giant into two companies with some optimism Monday, but the shares declined yesterday, falling 3 9/16 to 69 7/8 on Nasdaq, even though Wall Street said a breakup would punish the company too much. Mary Meeker, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, called the government's proposed remedy "simply too harsh."   

 Shares of several securities brokers turned weaker in yesterday's session, reversing the gains notched in Monday's trading. Lehman Brothers, in a research note, initiated coverage of several names in the sector. Charles Schwab declined 1 3/16 to 44 7/16. Lehman started the stock with a neutral rating, saying its valuation leaves little room for error.   

 Merrill Lynch declined 4 1/16 to 103 13/16, even though Lehman started coverage with an outperform rating, and praised the company as what it called the most attractive combination of growth, consistency and value in the large-cap end of the industry.   

 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter lost 4 to 75 3/4. Lehman started the stock with a neutral rating, saying its current price reflects its exposure to its strength in global capital markets. Goldman Sachs, also given a neutral rating by Lehman, declined 4 to 93.   

 As for Lehman itself, it worked lower with the group, finishing down 4 5/16 to 83 3/16.   

 Cigna lost 2 3/4 to 76 3/16. The Philadelphia health and financial-services concern posted first-quarter results late Monday that beat Wall Street's forecasts. Yesterday the company held a conference call with analysts to discuss its results, analysts said.   

 Shares of H&R Block fell to a 52-week low on news that the company's fee revenue during the key Jan. 1 through April 17 tax-preparation period was lower than expected. The company said fees in the period were up 12.3% compared with last year. In addition, the company said it expects to report a quarterly loss from its e-commerce business. Shares finished at 35 1/8, down 7 7/16, or 21%.   

 Rohm & Haas added 3 1/4 to 38 9/16. The Philadelphia specialty-chemicals maker late Monday said it expects its earnings this year to live up to Wall Street's forecasts.   

 AXA Financial advanced 1 1/8 to 34 3/4. PaineWebber boosted its earnings forecast on the New York financial concern, following the company's better-than-expected first-quarter profit report, which it issued Monday.   

 American International Group moved ahead 1 7/8 to 111 15/16. PaineWebber raised its rating on the New York insurance and financial-services concern.   

 King Pharmaceuticals fell 3 1/2 to 51 1/2 on Nasdaq. It lost ground even though the Bristol, Tenn., drug maker's first-quarter results released yesterday beat analysts' forecasts.   

 Qualcomm advanced 3 15/16 to 113 11/16 on Nasdaq, after a Japanese newspaper yesterday reported that Japanese telecommunications service provider DDI may opt, after all, to deploy the so-called CDMA wireless technology promoted by Qualcomm in its next generation of cellular-phone service. Lehman Brothers, in an upbeat research report, reiterated its buy rating on the stock, citing what the firm called growing confidence in Qualcomm's outlook.   

 BroadVision advanced 3 7/8 to 46 15/16 on Nasdaq. Goldman Sachs boosted its rating on the Redwood City, Calif., electronic-commerce software developer, while Credit Suisse First Boston raised its rating on the stock to a strong buy, saying the company is ready to emerge as one of the top guns in the sector.   

 Siebel Systems rose sharply intraday, but finished with a modest gain, up just 3/16 to 123 1/2 on Nasdaq. Standard & Poor's said it will add the stock of the San Mateo, Calif., provider of e-commerce software to its S&P 500-Stock Index at a date to be announced. Siebel will replace CBS, which is being acquired by Viacom. CBS ended unchanged at 60; Viacom, already a component of the S&P 500, lost 7/8 to 55 7/16.   

 MarchFirst (Nasdaq) advanced 1 9/16 to 23 5/8. Standard & Poor's said it will add the stock of the Chicago information-technology concern to the S&P 400 Mid-Cap index to replace Siebel.   

 Solectron, which lost 13% Monday on a pessimistic earnings forecast, continued its decline, falling 2 5/8 to 37 15/16 in yesterday's trading.   

 Clarent (Nasdaq) fell 5 to 69 1/2. The Redwood City, Calif., Internet-equipment provider agreed to buy ACT Networks in an agreement that places maximum value of $18 a share and a minimum value of $14 a share on ACT. That stock added 3/8 to 14 1/4 on Nasdaq.   

 Palm (Nasdaq) fell 1 to 28 3/4. UBS Warburg started coverage of the stock of the New York maker of hand-held computer products, putting a hold rating on the stock.   

Document j000000020010807dw5300c8z




 Business Highlights 

1,163 words
3 May 2000
05:13
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Time Warner called a sudden truce Tuesday in the corporate brawl that deprived 3.5 million cable TV customers of ABC for more than 27 hours, restoring the channel in time for viewers to see "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire." 

 The cable company and the Walt Disney Co., ABC's parent, didn't settle their differences, but set a new deadline of July 15 for their negotiations over compensation for cable channels. 

 Customers had reacted angrily when Time Warner systems in seven cities, including New York, Houston and Los Angeles, stopped airing ABC programs at 12:01 a.m. Monday. The blackout started a run on rabbit-ear antennas and satellite TV systems. 

 --- 

 NEW YORK (AP) - AT&T's stock slid 15 percent Tuesday as the company issued its first profit warning under chief executive C. Michael Armstrong, fueling worries about whether his radical remake of the nation's largest long-distance company will succeed. 

 The disappointing forecast, which came as AT&T posted first-quarter results that met most expectations, dampened the enthusiasm created by last week's initial public offering of $10.6 billion worth of stock in the company's wireless business. 

 In fact, shares of the new AT&T Wireless Group also fell Tuesday even as three major brokerages initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" recommendation. 

 --- 

 NEW YORK (AP) - The U.S. economy is set to grow well into the second half of the year, according to reports released Tuesday, while the government provided fresh evidence in a separate report that rising interest rates have done little to dissuade new-home buyers. 

 Analysts said the figures pointed to further interest rate increases by inflation fighters at the Federal Reserve. 

 The Index of Leading Economic Indicators, which is designed to predict economic activity three to six months ahead, rose 0.1 percent in March, indicating continued growth, but at a lower pace than in the last six months, the Conference Board said. 

 Meanwhile, the Commerce Department said new-home sales rose in March to their second-highest level on record, and the National Association of Purchasing Management said the manufacturing industry will continue to prosper through the year. 

 --- 

 WASHINGTON (AP) - The strong performance of information technology companies should keep the U.S. economy steaming ahead this year, the Commerce Department predicted Tuesday in its annual forecast of winners and losers in American business. 

 The list of winners was dominated by computer and telecommunication companies. Businesses making semiconductors and related devices for computers led all others with a projected jump in shipments this year of 23 percent, which would follow a strong 22.2 percent gain in 1999. 

 In all, five of the top six spots in the list of fastest growing industries were held by companies involved in manufacturing computers or computer parts or telecommunication equipment, according to the department's "U.S. Industry and Trade Outlook 2000" report. 

 --- 

 DETROIT (AP) - With the economy in high gear, Americans continued to pour into auto dealerships in April, boosting sales of cars and light trucks by about 11 percent. 

 Some industry leaders said sales got a temporary boost with cut-rate financing deals and cash rebates that were too high to sustain. But nearly every automaker reported sales gains, with newer models driving much of the increase. 

 At its current seasonally adjusted sales rate, the industry is on track to sell 18.2 million light vehicles this year, compared to the record 16.9 million last year, according to Morgan & Co. of West Olive, Mich. 

 --- 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Tower Air, the no-frills airline that filed for bankruptcy protection earlier this year, has halted all passenger service, leaving ticketholders scrambling to find space on other carriers. 

 "We are still operating charters and military flights but not passenger flights," Pam Buoninconcri, director of corporate relations for Tower, said Tuesday. 

 Passenger flights were discontinued Monday night. The airline had been flying to Los Angeles; Miami; San Juan, Puerto Rico; Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic and Tel Aviv, Israel. Flights to San Francisco; Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; Athens, Greece and Paris were dropped as problems mounted in recent months. 

 --- 

 WASHINGTON (AP) - Consumer advocates, unions, women's groups and religious leaders are protesting legislation that would make it tougher for people to erase debts through bankruptcy. 

 Officials of the groups and some Democratic lawmakers on Tuesday assailed the millions in campaign contributions by banks and credit card companies pushing the bipartisan legislation. 

 Prospects for its enactment appear stronger than in previous years. But the recent agitation against the legislation already seems to have had an effect: Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, said he would remove a provision from the Senate-passed bill that would let credit card companies take some bankrupt consumers' retirement assets to pay off debts. 

 --- 

 LONDON (AP) - The head of a consortium seeking to take over Rover's struggling car business in a last-ditch effort to save thousands of jobs said talks Tuesday with Germany's BMW about a buyout were "extremely positive." 

 Members of the so-called Phoenix consortium met with BMW executives in an urgent bid to prevent the closure of Britain's biggest auto plant. 

 The two sides held their first round of talks since the collapse of negotiations last week between BMW and its preferred buyer, British venture capital firm Alchemy Partners. 

 BMW is eager to dump Rover after failing for six years to stem the group's losses. It warned last week that it would shut down Rover's car operations if it doesn't find a buyer by the end of the month. 

 --- 

 CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP) - The Post and Courier this week began printing dime-sized bar codes that, when read with a hand-held scanner linked to a computer, take readers directly to related Web sites. 

 On Tuesday, the newspaper ran the codes in its masthead, next to a one-line weather forecast on the front page and in a reference box to charleston.net, its Web site. 

 About 100 people are testing the $100 scanners now. Pickens expects the costs eventually will be covered by advertisers, who would provide the scanners to readers for free. 

 --- 

 By The Associated Press 

 Stocks fell broadly Tuesday after AT&T delivered a cautious profit outlook and investors took profits from a three-day rally in technology shares. Worries about rising interest rates hung over the market, keeping volume low and buyers scarce. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 172.63 to 3,785.45, its first decline in four sessions. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 80.66 to close at 10,731.12. 

 Gasoline futures jumped 6 percent Tuesday on the New York Mercantile Exchange amid concerns about dwindling supplies just ahead of the summer driving season. 

 The gasoline rally also pulled crude oil prices sharply higher. In other markets, corn climbed to a 17-month high and copper rose to a six-week high. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw53095bn


BUSINESS
AT&T PROFIT WARNING  DRAGS MARKET LOWER -- INVESTORS DECIDE TO TAKE PROFITS AFTER THREE-DAY TECH RALLY

EILEEN GLANTON   
444 words
3 May 2000
Peoria Journal Star
PRJS
ALL
A07
English
Copyright 2000, Peoria Journal Star. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK - Stocks fell broadly Tuesday after AT&T delivered a cautious profit outlook and investors took profits from a three-day rally in technology shares. Worries about rising interest rates hung over the market, keeping volume low and buyers scarce.

The Nasdaq composite index fell 172.63 to 3,785.45, its first decline in four sessions. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 80.66 to close at 10,731.12.

Broader market indicators also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 21.96 to 1,446.29.

AT&T fell 7 1/16 to 41 15/16 after lowering its earnings forecasts for fiscal year 2000, saying the competitive long-distance market is cutting into consumer phone revenue. AT&T said it now expects to produce fullyear operating profits of between $1.80 and $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94.

For the first quarter, AT&T posted operating profit of $1.73 billion, or 53 cents per share, matching the estimates of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial.

Shares of AT&T's new Wireless Group fell 3 to 32 1/4.

Technology stocks were mixed after three days of solid gains as investors took some profits. Microsoft gave back its Monday advance and fell 3 9/16 to 69 7/8.

The broader market was fairly quiet, hemmed in by a lack of news on inflation. The Federal Reserve holds its next policymaking meeting on May 16, and many investors expect the Fed to raise interest rates by a quarter-percentage point. Recent signs of booming economic growth have stimulated some concerns that the Fed could raise rates by as much as a half-percentage point.

Higher interest rates are generally bad for stocks, so fears of a sharper-than-expected increase are likely to hang over the market until the Fed's next meeting, analysts said.

''Some people have gone to the sidelines to wait for the employment data due out Friday,'' said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Co. ''There's no sense of doom, but investors are definitely waiting for more data to gauge the strength of the economy.''

NYSE volume totaled 1.01 billion shares, compared with 943.85 million in the previous session. The Nasdaq, which recorded one of its quietest sessions of the year, saw seven stocks fall for every four that rose.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 13.58 to 505.35.

Document PRJS000020100608dw5300axi




DBusiness
 Profit warning  prompts slide in AT&T stock; Long-distance price wars believed to play a role

Associated Press   
528 words
3 May 2000
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
MLWK
Final
02
English
Copyright 2000, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

AT&T's stock slid 15% Tuesday as the company issued its first profit warning under chief executive C. Michael Armstrong, fueling worries about whether his radical remake of the nation's largest long-distance company will succeed.

The disappointing forecast, which came as AT&T posted first-quarter results that met most expectations, dampened the enthusiasm created by last week's initial public offering of $10.6 billion worth of stock in the company's wireless business.

In fact, shares of the new AT&T Wireless Group also fell Tuesday even as three major brokerages initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" recommendation.

Predictably, price wars in consumer long-distance ranked high among the culprits that prompted AT&T's revised outlook.

Job cuts in that unit are already a major part of Armstrong's plan to cut $2 billion in costs during 2000, and the company reported Tuesday that 6,200 workers were notified in the first quarter that their positions are being eliminated, mostly in long-distance.

It wasn't clear, however, whether the worsening backdrop for long-distance would lead to even more aggressive cost-cutting in that unit. Still, since cost cuts totaled only $300 million in the first quarter, there would seem to be plenty of pain to come this year.

"We're not going to speculate on job cuts, although we're certainly going to focus on the cost infrastructure of all legacy businesses," said Chief Financial Officer Charles Noski, referring to AT&T's traditional telephone operations.

More unexpected than the troubles in consumer long-distance was the weakness AT&T reported in the far more profitable business of providing long-distance service to companies and other high-volume users, as well as the revelation of regulatory delays in the company's purchase of cable provider MediaOne.

The discouraging update raised new questions about AT&T's ambitious bid to become a new-age communications company, highlighted by an investment of more than $100 billion to buy and upgrade cable systems for telephone calls and high-speed Internet services.

Investors, already slightly dubious about whether a company so large can pull off such a dramatic transformation, wasted no time in trashing the stock. AT&T fell $7, to $42, finishing only a shade above its 52-week low, while AT&T Wireless fell $3, to $32.25, both on the New York Stock Exchange.

In a conference call following Tuesday's profit report, AT&T said it now expects to produce full-year operating profits of between $1.80 and $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94.

In the first three months of this year, AT&T earned $1.73 billion, or 53 cents a share, in the first three months of 1999, excluding one-time factors and ownership interests that produced a net profit of $1.74 billion, or 54 cents a share, for the quarter.

Document MLWK000020100319dw5300cmb




 Danish shares hit 5-week highs, outlook unsure. 

477 words
2 May 2000
16:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

     COPENHAGEN Stock Exchange at 1510 GMT close on Tuesday: 

  *KFX top-20 index   294.01 up 3.87 pts/1.33 pct 


 *KFX turnover	 1.78 billion DKK ($216 million)



*KFX May future 293.00 up 6.10 pts



*Broad market risers vs decliners 147 vs 92



*Broad market turnover 2.6 billion DKK



*Carnegie small-cap index 282.33 up 1.08 pct



COPENHAGEN, May 2 (Reuters) - Danish blue-chip shares closed over one percent up at five-week highs on Tuesday in a market gathering momentum after a becalmed trading day on May 1, with dealers unsure of prospects and expecting overnight U.S. markets to determine Wednesday's trend.



Both the technology-laden Nasdaq and the Dow Jones Industrial indices in New York were down as Copenhagen closed.



"It is touch and go what happens tomorrow. The market is strong but the outlook is uncertain, the U.S. will set the agenda for Wednesday," one dealer said.



Main movers behind the KFX rise were leading constituents bio-tech firm Novo Nordisk and Tele Danmark and rescue and security service Falck.



Novo Nordisk, with a bumper increase in Q1 profits expected on Wednesday, put on 25 crowns or 2.2 percent to 1,175 crowns, a 25-month high, compared with pharmaceuticals peers in the Dow Jones EuroStoxx index which rose only 0.37 percent.



Tele Danmark, accounting for one-fifth of blue chip turnover, was the most traded KFX paper of the day, closing nine crowns or 1.5 percent up at 624 crowns, underperforming European peers which climbed 3.8 percent.



Falck was the day's top gain leader, boosted by its one billion dollar acquisition of privately-owned Group 4 Securitas (International) to become the world's second biggest provider of security services.



The share finished 19.4 percent or 219 crowns dearer at a new year closing high of 1,350 crowns.



On the negative side computer software firm Navision ignored the Nasdaq's overnight rise to slip 15 crowns to 615 crowns. Off the KFX, software firm Damgaard dropped almost eight percent to 475 crowns, having narrowly missed the cut for joining the blue chip league in June.



Also pulling the index down was industrial conglomerate FLS Industries which tumbled 7.3 percent to end at 139 crowns on a profit warning from its chairman at the firm's AGM.



FLS is one of the stocks that will bow out from the KFX index next month.



Moeller oil and shipping's D/S Svendborg  and D/S 1912  had an off-day, slipping 1,300 and 439 crowns respectively to end at 117,000 and 84,500 crowns.



((Chris Follett +45 33 96 96 52, fax +45 33 93 84 57, copenhagen.newsroom@reuters.com)).



.......					   .



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw520190s


 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,572 words
2 May 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 PAUL KANGAS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: AT&T (T) rings the warning bell. The telephone giant lowers its profit predictions, and that helps Wall Street dial up a losing day. The Dow falls 80 points and the NASDAQ Index drops 172. Good evening. I`m Paul Kangas in Miami. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. The battle between ABC and Time Warner (TWX) is over-at least temporarily-and we`ll fill you in. Then we look at a catalog company that`s plowing ahead into new territory: traditional bricks and mortar retailing. 

 GHARIB: Good evening, everyone. Investors slammed the phone on AT&T today. The stock plunged almost seven points, or more than 14 percent, after the company posted disappointing first quarter earnings and issued a profit warning. Operating profits came in at $0.53 a share, down from $.061 a year ago, but right in line with estimates. But what troubled Wall Street was that the company lowered its earnings forecasts for the rest of the year, blaming it on a slow down in its long distance business. Still, many analysts say the stock is a buy. 

 MEL MARTEN, TELECOM ANALYST, EDWARD JONES: We`d recommend holding on to it. AT&T with the recent IPO, their wireless tracking stock, AT&T still owns 84 percent of those tracking shares. AT&T will be closing the MediaOne (UMG) acquisition around the middle of this year, and so looking into the second half of this year and into 2001, we expect to see much better results at AT&T. GHARIB: Well AT&T also says it will cut 6,200 jobs this year as part of a $2 billion cost-cutting program. Paul? 

 KANGAS: That AT&T profit warning set the tone for a down day on Wall Street. Adding to the market`s woes was an early three-point drop to 70 1/8 in Microsoft (MSFT) stock after influential Morgan Stanley (MWD) analyst Mary Meeker said she likes Microsoft in the 60`s not the 70`s. By 10:30 this morning, the Dow Industrial Average was down nearly 63 points, and 49 points of that loss was due to the weakness in AT&T and Microsoft alone. The NASDAQ Index, in which Microsoft is a component, was off 40 1/4 points. 

 Stock prices stabilized as the morning trading wore on, but when few potential buyers came off the sidelines, just normal selling pressures had quite a negative impact. The market then began a late afternoon slow, low volume downward spiral. The Dow Jones Industrial Average finally closed with a loss of 80.66 at 10,731.12. In today`s 115 point trading range, the Dow closed down 93 points from the best level of the session. The NASDAQ Composite fell 172.63 points; that`s about 4.4 percent, and now stands at 3,785.45. In its 164-point trading range, the Composite Index settled just a fraction above its absolutely worst level of the day. 

 Big board volume moved up over a billion shares but still not one of the most active days by far, about a 5 to 4 ratio of down volume over up volume. 

 The Dow Transports Index down 16.15. 

 The Utility Index fell just over two points. 

 And the Closing Tick a neutral -7. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 down nearly 22 points. 

 Almost a 12 point loss in the 100. 

 The MidCap 400 down 12.61. 

 And the Bridge Futures Price Index moved up just over 1 full point. 

 New York Stock Exchange Composite lost 4.82. 

 A 6 1/3 drop in the Value Line. 

 The Russell2000 Small Cap Index off just 13 1/2 points. 

 And the broadly based Wilshire 5000 down almost 269 points. 

 The bond market came under fresh downside pressure today on news that new home sales in March jumped a solid 4.5 percent, on which we`ll have details in just a moment. Of course this convinced a lot of traders that the Fed was now more likely than ever to boost rates by a 1/2 percent rather than just a 1/4 later this month. Among other negatives was a 1/10 percent rise in the March Index of Leading Economic Indicators and a big jump in oil futures. 

 Tax-free and corporates ended down about a 1/4 point on average and the Treasury market ended mostly lower as well. 

 No change in the 5-year note. 

 But the 10-year note down 6/32. 

 And the 30-year bond off 14/32 with a yield now at 6.02 percent. 

 And the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index fell almost 3 points. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today, Susie. 

 GHARIB: Paul, as you mentioned a moment ago, more signs today that the economy is in the speed zone. The latest numbers on home sales came in much stronger than expected. In fact, sales of new homes are on track for another record year. Erika Miller reports on what`s behind the strong gains. 

 ERIKA MILLER, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: With interest rates rising and volatility in the stock market you might think real estate sales would be suffering. But mortgage brokers say sales are on fire. 

 ELLEN BITTON, PRESIDENT & CEO, PARK AVENUE MORTGAGE: BITTON: There has been a tremendous amount of wealth that has been created. There is a greater capacity for monthly payments based on today`s housing prices and interest rates. 

 MILLER: The latest statistics support that. The number of single family homes sold in March rose 4 1/2 percent to a 966,000 unit annual rate. That was the biggest rise in more than a year and a surprise to many on Wall Street who were expecting a decline. Housing is historically the first sector of the economy to be affected by higher interest rates and the average rate of a 30 year fixed rate mortgage rose in March to 8 1/4 percent. That`s up from 7 percent last year. But that`s not stopping consumers. Jobs remain plentiful and incomes are rising. Gains in the stock market over the past few years have increased the wealth of many households. In fact, market volatility may actually prompt some investors to buy real estate. 

 BITTON: People are looking to real estate instead of putting more money into the stock market at this point. They`re looking for a solid investment that will give them return on their money. 

 MILLER: Consumers also have numerous financing options. For example, people who find themselves priced out of a fixed rate mortgage can sometimes opt for a variable one at a lower rate. Still, some economists say the current level of home sales is unsustainable. 

 MAURY HARRIS, CHIEF ECONOMIST, PAINEWEBBER: Home buying should start to slow. Mortgage rates are higher this year than they were last year. The stock market wealth effects on consumer spending aren`t quite as strong this year as they were last year. 

 MILLER: Any decline in home sales is expected to be gradual. Experts say the magnitude of any drop would depend mainly on interest rates but also on whether there is further weakness in stocks. Erika Miller, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York. 

 KANGAS: Time Warner (TWX) agreed to return ABC to its cable systems. But the deal is just a temporary measure. The move restores WHO WANTS TO BE A MILLIONAIRE and other ABC programming back to 3 1/2 million homes that lost access to the programming during a nasty corporate dispute between Disney and Time Warner. Stephanie Woods reports. 

 STEPHANIE WOODS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: We interrupt this dispute for commercial programming. ABC was back on Time Warner cable after a day of highly public negotiations and pressure from the FCC and members of Congress. 

 SEN. CHARLES SCHUMER (D), NEW YORK: In this rumble between two telecom behemoths, it is wrong that viewers are the ones left with the black eye. 

 WOODS: The battle is over how much Time Warner should pay Disney for carrying its cable channels, including ABC, ESPN and the Disney Channel. The dispute left three and a half million viewers without ABC for a day and a half. Consumers complained and Time Warner quickly offered to extend the existing contract to put ABC back on the air. 

 JOSEPH COLLINS, CHAIRMAN, TIME WARNER CABLE: We`ve offered them to continue carrying ABC for a minimum of five and a half months and this relieves our customers from uncertainty and provides an adequate amount of time for the two companies to work out whatever details are required. 

 WOODS: Disney accepted the temporary offer, but put a July 15th deadline on negotiations instead of the five and a half months offered by Time Warner. By the end of the news conference, Time Warner announced it would accept the deal. 

 COLLINS: Reluctantly, because we don`t think it`s the right amount of time and we don`t think it`s appropriate. 

 WOODS: Time Warner is in the midst of its merger with America Online and is eager to get the ABC dispute out of the spotlight. Analysts expect more battles as video content moves to the Internet. 

 PAUL GLENCHUR, DIRECTOR, SCHWAB WASHINGTON RESEARCH: We`re moving into the broadband age and it`s not just broadcast programming that`s at issue, and I think that part of this dispute has in the background the whole issue of what happens when content providers and distributors get together and potentially have a major influence over what viewers can see. 

 WOODS: FCC Chairman Bill Kennard said he was glad the parties made an agreement, but he chided them for their tactics. 

 BILL KENNARD, FCC CHAIRMAN: This should never happen again. This really should never happen again. What these companies did is hold American television viewers hostage to their own financial disputes. 

 WOODS: Kennard also said the FCC would make a ruling on whether or not a cable company can pull off broadcast programming during a sweeps period. GHARIB: If you bought an airline ticket recently you probably noticed that prices are up. On Capitol Hill today, lawmakers were asking whether prices are higher for some cities because big airlines are unfairly forcing out competition from low cost competitors. Darren Gersh reports. 

 DARREN GERSH, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Frequent fliers have seen it time and time again. A low cost airline sets up shop and the big carrier fights back, slashing fares and adding flights. The low cost airline is driven out, and prices go back up. Lawmakers are concerned that`s predatory pricing. 

 SEN. MIKE DeWINE , R- OHIO: If correctly enforced, the predatory pricing laws should enable the government to punish illegal activity without chilling the sort of tough competition that we want to encourage. 

 GERSH: The Justice Department has charged American Airlines with predatory pricing at its Dallas-Fort Worth hub. American calls the case meritless. But antitrust cases like this take so long a new carrier may be out of business before it gets its day in court and proving predatory pricing is not easy. Experts say it`s difficult to show an airline could have earned more by keeping prices high when challenged by a low cost competitor. The man some call the father of airline deregulation says one solution may be to force airlines to keep for two years the same prices they put in place when a low fare carrier moved into the market. 

 ALFRED KAHN, CORNELL UNIVERSITY: That would be a real test of whether they really thought that they were taking the most profitable course or whether they were designedly taking loses which could be explained only in the expectation of succeeding in predation. 

 GERSH: But airline executives say their business is no different than a price war between two corner gas stations. 

 DONALD CARTY, CEO, AMERICAN AIRLINES: Does the guy that matched, if the other guy goes out of business, have to keep his gas price at $0.90 for two years afterwards? The answer is no. 

 GERSH: One thing is clear, competition from low fare carriers helps all travelers. Studies show discount airlines have just 12 percent of the market but have influenced prices on routes covering 42 percent of the market. Darren Gersh, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 GHARIB: Late today we got word of what could become a huge takeover battle. Unilever has offered to buy Best Foods for about $18.5 billion or $66 a share. But Best Foods, known for its Skippy peanut butter brand and Hellmann`s mayonnaise says the offer is, "financially inadequate" and Paul, as you know, Unilever has been on a buying spree recently. It bought Ben and Jerry`s (BJICA) and Slim Fast and now this. 

 KANGAS: Well, the stocks were not trading in after hours. Best Foods ended the day down 3/4 at 50 9/16. Unilever was down a 1/16 at 24 3/4. I think Best Foods will be a best gainer tomorrow. In any case, a down day on Wall Street, off nearly 81 points on the Dow. For every 13 stocks higher, 17 lower. Fifty-four new highs for the year versus 49 new lows. 

 AT&T (T) topped the active list on nearly 49 million shares, plunging 6 11/16 on that disappointing forecast. 

 And then AT&T Wireless (AWE) gave back practically all of what it gained yesterday. It was up 2 3/4. Phillip Morris (MO) edged up another 3/16. It was a good gainer yesterday on positive comments from First Boston. 

 Compaq Computer (CPQ) down 5/8. 

 Nokia (NOK) giving back some of its sharp recent gains, down 2 7/16. 

 Pfizer (PFE) moved up 1 1/8. 

 America Online (AOL) down 2 1/8. 

 Disney (DIS) edged up 1/8. 

 And then MediaOne (UMG) down 6 9/16, of course, in sympathy with AT&T, which is buying the 

 MediaOne company out for about $31 a share cash and nearly one share of AT&T, hence the drop. 

 And Solectron (SLR) down 2 11/16. Yesterday it tumbled 6 1/4 on the company`s forecast of lower than expected third quarter earnings. 

 American Express (AXP), one of the bigger Dow losers today in a weak financial sector, down 3 5/16. 

 But Cabletron Systems (CS) moved up 2 1/8. Silver Lake Partners will boost its stake in the company through the purchase of $24 million of Cabletron preferred stock with a $30 a share conversion price. 

 General Electric (GE) doing well, up 1 11/16, bucking the overall trend. Of course, the 3 for 1 stock split payment date is Friday. 

 Kroger (KR) moved up 13/16 after Merrill Lynch repeated a "buy" recommendation. 

 And Newmont Mining (NEM) up almost 3 points. Gold, the June contract in New York today up $2.20 to $2.77 an ounce. 

 And Rohm and Haas (ROH) gained 3 1/4 points. The company says it is on track to deliver on its promises of profitable earnings growth in the range of six to eight percent annually. 

 AMREP (AXR) up 1 full point. This company develops housing sites and it`s going to make a Dutch tender offer for up to 10 percent of its stock at prices between $5.25 and $7.00 each. 

 And RehabCare Group (RHB) up 4 3/8, sharply higher first quarter earnings, $0.73, way up from $0.47 last year. The Street was only looking for $0.60. 

 JC Penney (JCP) had a good day, up 1 7/8. The company is exploring strategic alternatives regarding its direct marketing services unit. 

 And Stone and Webster (SW) down another 2 3/8. Yesterday, the stock plunged 6 7/8 when the company said it`s going to revise `99 results lower due to heavy cost overruns. The company is having liquidity problems, put itself up for sale and today First Boston said sell the stock. 

 Guess (GES) down 5 9/16 despite higher first quarter earnings, $0.35, $0.05 better than the Street estimate, revenues up 46 percent. But the Ferris Baker Brokerage noted the company`s first quarter inventory was up about 91 percent over last year. The company`s in the casual apparel business. 

 H and R Block (HRB) down 7 5/8. The company sees lower than expected fiscal 2000 earnings. It`s going to take an $18 million pretax loss from its e-commerce operations. 

 NASDAQ trading, a loss of 172.63. I believe that`s the 10th largest point loss in history. Volume down a bit from yesterday, about 14 stocks up for every 25 lower. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) topped the active list, down 3 9/16. 

 And then Qualcomm (QCOM) up 3 15/16. 

 Intel (INTC) dropped almost 6. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) losing 3 7/16. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) down 9 11/16. 

 Oracle (ORCL) off 1 7/8. 

 But Broadcom (BRCM) bucked the trend, up 7 3/4. First Boston and Goldman Sachs both upgraded the stock and the company also introduced a new chip for the optical network market. 

 MCI WorldCom (WCOM) down 3 points. 

 Sun Microsystems (SUNW) off 3 3/4. Applied Materials (AMAT) dropped 3 13/16, was fifth in dollar volume. Then -- 10th in dollar volume, I should say. 

 Vixel Corporation (VIXL) up 5 7/8. Lucent Corp. (LU) plans to use the company`s fiber channel switching technology. 

 And Sonic Innovations (SNCI) went public today. The company makes digital hearing aids, 3.6 million shares offered at 14, opened at 23, the high of the day 25. 

 Anacomp (ANCO) down 3 5/16. The company says it is no longer considering its sale. 

 The American Exchange Index down nearly 10 1/2 points. 

 Big mover, Apex Silver Mines Limited (SIL), up 2 3/16. A spokeswoman told us the strength probably due to the strong precious metals group overall today. No specific corporate news. 

 Baycorp Holdings (MWH) dropped 3 points. The Washington Service reported that there have been some recent insider sales of the stock. 

 And finally, the Index Shares all on the down side, especially the NASDAQ Qs (QQQ) off 5 7/16. 

 That`s the Wall Street Wrap Up. Susie? 

 GHARIB: Well, Paul, one the country`s oldest catalogue companies is challenging the new economy Burpee`s, the 120-year-old garden supply company, is expanding into bricks and mortar, which is just the opposite strategy of many traditional retailers that have been jumping onto the Internet bandwagon. Diane Eastabrook explains why. 

 DIANE EASTABROOK, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Burpee Gardens in suburban Chicago looks like a garden supply store. But W. Atlee Burpee and Company says this is really a 4,000 square foot laboratory. The company recently opened this store and will soon open another in New Jersey to monitor how well new seed hybrids and other gardening products sell. The information gleaned here will be used to market products to Burpee`s largest buyers such as Wal-Mart (WMT) and K-Mart (KM). 

 WILLIAM CLARK, ASSISTANT TO PRESIDENT, W. ATLEE BURPEE & COMPANY: We really owe it to our retail customers, our wholesale customers to provide them with product lines that maximize the sales per square foot. So what we experience here will give us indicators of which varieties really have the legs to expand further. 

 EASTABROOK: Burpee has been selling seeds and garden supplies to consumers through catalogs for more than a century. It began selling over the Internet a few years ago. But the company felt stores would bring it closer to customers, deepen its relationship with them and help it get more information about what consumers want. Some retail consultants say Burpee has hit on something that has been lost on many Internet retailers. 

 NEIL STERN, RETAIL CONSULTANT, McMILLAN DOOLITTLE, LLP: There are a number of consumers who are uncomfortable with the process of transacting on line, providing security and privacy information, and a retail store allows you to kind of get a tangible sense for the company you are dealing with as well as get around all those transaction and privacy issues. 

 EASTABROOK: Burpee has no plans to become a chain of a gardening stores, but the company may open a few more laboratory stores in other parts of the country to see what sells best in different regions. Diane Eastabrook, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Downers Grove, Illinois. 

 KANGAS: Tomorrow we`ll look at the heated battle over China`s bid for entry into the World Trade Organization. 

 GHARIB: Novell`s (NOVL) stock got clobbered in after hours trading today, down as much as 27 percent from a closing price of 17 9/16. After the bell, Novell warned that second quarter earnings will be sharply lower than expected, around $0.08 a share, and analysts were looking for $0.16 a share. Novell reports its second quarter earnings on May 23rd after the close of trading. 

 KANGAS: Ford (F) is recalling more than half a million of its popular Expedition and Lincoln Navigator models because bolts on their trailer hitches could come loose. The recall covers model years 1997 to the present. The loose bolts could cause the hitch to fall off. So far, there are no reports of that happening. Ford shares today fell off 13/16 to close at 53 1/4. 

 GHARIB: Recapping today`s market action, the Dow lost 80 points and the NASDAQ tumbled 172. And please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: NBR. 

 KANGAS: It`s been an up and down ride in many stock areas this year and perhaps no more so than in the biotech sector. When biotech topped out about a month ago, the fund that ruled the roost was Orbitex Health and Biotechnology Fund. Year to date it`s up more than 37 1/2 percent while it`s up 89 percent since starting out just 10 months ago. The portfolio manager of Orbitex Health and Biotech is Tim Bepler, who joins us from New York. And, Tim, welcome. 

 TIMOTHY BEPLER, PORTFOLIO MANAGER, ORBITEX HEALTH & BIOTECH FUND: Thanks, Paul. 

 KANGAS: First, do you by the biotech stocks were oversold and those that rebounded did so justifiably or those that haven`t are poised to rebound? 

 BEPLER: Yeah, I think so. I think we`ve seen a great rebound. We`re above 20 percent from the lows. I think it was justified. Hopefully we have hit the bottom and I think from here it will be on the way up. I think it will be a little bit more of a measured rally than we saw in the first quarter of this year which was more of a moon shot, but I think that you`ll see a lot of good value based on cold hard cash flows that these companies are going to start producing within the next few years. 

 KANGAS: Well, I understand you see bright prospects for biotech because of the record number of products in the pipeline. Which products do you see as having the best potential and which companies will benefit? 

 BEPLER: Well, we think particularly one of the companies, Icos (ICOS), ICOS is the ticker symbol, has a Viagra type drug for erectile dysfunction and it should hit the market within the next two years. I think the stock could be a huge winner based on that. Across the board you see other compounds such as cancer, particularly a cancer vaccine from a company called Progenics (PGNX), PGNX, that`s in a deal with Bristol-Myers (BMY) that could be very, very big. 

 KANGAS: Are these companies the main positions in your fund right now? 

 BEPLER: Yeah, right now these are in our top 10 holdings and we feel quite confident. We`re not sure about the volatility going on. This is biotechnology. It will be volatile. But I think investors have to remain focused on the long-term prospects for the companies that we feel are fantastic. 

 KANGAS: Well, your fund is able to invest outside of the biotech in the health care area generally. But I understand that you`re concerned about the impact of government regulation on health care stocks. True? 

 BEPLER: That`s right. We limit our exposure, absolutely, actually have zero exposure to the hospital companies, nursing homes and HMO spaces as far as that goes. We`re even relatively underweight in the pharmaceutical area where we only have about a five percent position waiting there. 

 KANGAS: OK, Tim, as a mutual fund manager, have you to be concerned about your short-term performance. But if someone was looking for a biotech stock to buy and hold for, let`s say, the next five years, what would you recommend? 

 BEPLER: I think one of the best if you want to go into an area that I think has a lot of promise, is Genomics. And one of the best companies in that area as far as we see is Millennium (MLNM), MLNM. That`s a vertically integrated genomics company from diagnostics to therapeutics to sequencing and I think that has a very good chance of being one of the biggest winners in health care over the next five years. 

 KANGAS: We have time for a second choice. 

 BEPLER: A second choice would be a company with a broad based product platform such as Alcarmese (ALKS). That`s a relatively small company now, but as a drug delivery technology. 

 KANGAS: OK, Alcarmese. Alcarmese, right? 

 BEPLER: ALKS is the ticker symbol. 

 KANGAS: OK, well, Tim, trying to negotiate the biotech area is no easy task so we wish you very good luck. 

 BEPLER: Thanks a lot, Paul. I appreciate it. 

 KANGAS: My guest Tim Bepler of the Orbitex Health and Biotechnology Fund. GHARIB: Well, that`s it for us. NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for this May 2nd. I`m Susie Gharib. Good night, everyone. And good night to you, Paul. 

 KANGAS: Good night, Susie. I`m Paul Kangas wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post-broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. 

 The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. 

 Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. 

 c2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dw520002f


 Business 
 MONEYLINE 

 Stuart Varney, Susan Lisovicz, Greg Clarkin, Kitty Pilgrim, Jim Moret, Bruce Francis, Steve Young, Casey Wian, Fred Katayama 
8,238 words
2 May 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  Tonight on MONEYLINE, Wall Street in retreat -- the Nasdaq sinks like a stone and the Dow dips, as one of the bluest of blue chips takes a dive. Is Michael Armstrong`s big gamble on remaking AT&T (URL: http://www.att.com/) in big trouble? 

 Another drag on the market -- Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) slammed after a lukewarm assessment from one of the most influential names in the tech world. 

 Who will get to see "Millionaire" tonight? Millions of cable viewers across the nation. ABC is back following a dramatic truce between Time Warner (URL: http://www.timewarner.com/) and Disney (URL: http://www.disney.com/) . 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ABC has signed the letter. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY: Who blinked and why? 

 And a special report on the entrepreneurs of tomorrow -- are they shelving  their dot-com dreams after witnessing the Nasdaq upheaval? Don`t bet on it. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don`t really care what the market says, to be honest. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 ANNOUNCER: This is THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Stuart Varney. 

 VARNEY: Good evening, everyone. Willow is off tonight. 

 At around lunchtime today, it seemed like Wall Street might get a rare day of peace and quiet. But by day`s end, the Dow and Nasdaq had succumbed to selling pressure, investors unable to fend off a variety of concerns, from corporate worries to Federal Reserve policy, with two weeks and counting to the next meeting on interest rates. 

 The Nasdaq took a late-day slide, losing more than 4 percent, wiping out all of yesterday`s gains. That`s an abrupt end to a three-session winning streak. As for the Dow, it lost 80 points, with two stocks accounting for more than half of that loss. They were AT&T and Microsoft. 

 Susan Lisovicz reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A disappointing profit forecast from AT&T was the equivalent of lacing cement shoes to the Dow industrials. The telephone giant met slightly lowered expectations for the first quarter, but surprised the street with a cautionary forecast. AT&T, the most active stock on the big board finishing the day down 7 to $42 a share. 

 AL GOLDMAN, A.G. EDWARDS: The market has shown time and time again if you disappoint them and if you say anything negative about future growth prospects you get taken behind the barn and spanked and that`s the way it should be. 

 LISOVICZ: Also dragging down the Dow, financials and technology stocks. American Express (URL: http://www.americanexpress.com/) and J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) weighed heavily as did Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) and Microsoft. The software giant also had a downward affect on the Nasdaq, as investors weighed prospects for a drawn-out legal battle. Microsoft now plans to ask for an extension to mount a case against the Justice Department`s break-up proposal. 

 Following in the wake of AT&T and Microsoft, several Nasdaq heavyweights took blows, including MCI WorldCom (URL: http://www.mciworldcom.com) , Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) , Global Crossing (URL: http://www.globalcrossing.bm/) , and Cisco Systems (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) . 

 But with no sign of the economy slowing, the biggest fear running through traders` minds is a bigger than expected interest rate hike by the Fed when policy makers meet in two weeks. 

 TERENCE GABRIEL, IDEA GLOBAL.COM: It`s not unreasonable that we`re seeing the market sort of start to enter a consolidation phase here. Although, I do think that although we expect 50 basis points at the May meeting, that`s pretty much factored into stocks. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 LISOVICZ: Skittish traders are bracing themselves for key economic data out later this week. Productivity is released on Thursday and the much-watched non-farm payrolls will be out on Friday, both seen as key indicators of potential Fed activity -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Susan Lisovicz right there at the big board, thanks, Susan. 

 AT&T`s decline is just the latest in a long line of big blow-ups this year, stocks of big-name companies suffering one-day disasters. Today, AT&T lost roughly $22 billion worth of its value, more than Amazon`s (URL: http://www.amazon.com/) entire market cap. Now, this blow-up comes just weeks after Bristol-Myers Squibb (URL: http://www.bms.com/) lost nearly $30 billion when the company pulled a key drug from fast-track approval. In early April, Microsoft lost about $80 billion in one day, ahead of the blockbuster antitrust ruling against the company. In March, Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) lost about $35 billion after issuing a profit warning. And in early January, Lucent (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) lost $50 billion for exactly the same reason. 

 Three of those stocks, by the way -- three of those companies, by the way, are Dow stocks, big contributors to the blue-chip choppiness that we`ve seen this year. Today, the Dow was traded in a -- or rather, over the recent past, the Dow has traded in a near 2,000-point range from the year`s closing low to the high, it`s now off more than 6.5 percent in the year 2000. But the Nasdaq is clearly the year`s big loser, down more than 7 percent this year and down 25 percent from its high, firmly -- apparently in the grips of a bear market. 

 But our first guest thinks tech stocks have hit bottom. Tom Galvin is chief investment officer at DLJ (URL: http://www.dlj.com) , and he joins us now on MONEYLINE. 

 Tom, welcome back. 

 THOMAS GALVIN, DONALDSON, LUFKIN & JENRETTE: Thanks, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Am I right in saying that you are telling people that the stock market right now is the place to be, not cash, not bonds, not gold, not real estate, stocks? 

 GALVIN: Stuart, bonds -- Treasury bonds have outperformed stocks true to date. With some concerns about the Fed and inflation, I don`t think that`s probably going to be the outperforming asset by year end. At the same time, earnings growth continues to be in the aggregate despite AT&T`s problems far better than expected, and I think ultimately those fundamentals will come back to roost and we`ll see ultimately, I think, stock prices for the big indexes like the S&P 500 up as much as 20 percent by year end from where we are today and I think the Nasdaq could be up closer to 30 percent from current levels. 

 VARNEY: If I`m not mistaken, if you look at asset allocation, you have --of all the analysts on Wall Street, all the investment advisers, you have more money allocated to stocks than just about anybody else, I think. That`s roughly accurate? 

 GALVIN: Correct. We`re current asset allocation is 90 percent stocks, 10 percent cash. That -- we did that after the April 14th frightful Friday for the Nasdaq. I think,. as we found in 1994 and 1999, if you`re bearish on stocks because you`re worried about inflation, frankly, bonds are not the safe haven that people used to believe they were. And therefore I think the allocation decision really becomes, if you`re bullish you certainly want to be more fully invested in stocks, which I am -- cash obviously. We`re trying to keep some powder on the sidelines. 

 VARNEY: But let me come back at you. If inflation is rising, and appears to be, if the Fed is rating interest rates, and it definitely is, the housing market, for example, picking up a lot of steam, the economy going very, very strong -- traditionally, that`s not the time to be putting fresh cash into stocks. Make your case. GALVIN: Well, I think we`re also an environment where there is limited pricing power. We still have too much excess capacity, global deregulation, global competition. The Internet to me is about disintermediation (ph) and creating more transparencies as it relates to pricing power and in that vein I think we`ll ultimately see if there are pricing pressures as we saw last week with the employment cost index or some material costs. I think it ultimately has to get absorbed in margins. I think that creates a landscape of winners and losers. 

 I think the winners are ultimately the ones that have unit growth, fast unit growth that can drive productivity to get over some of those cost increases, while more mature businesses, some of the more older, traditional Dow stocks that have excess capacity, mature growth, I think 

 will have a margin problem. So I think you`ve got to be able to select the right winners and losers. I think tech, telecom, and health care is really where that unit growth is going to come from. 

 VARNEY: Buy that dip, says Tom Galvin, DLJ, and thanks very much for joining us. 

 GALVIN: Thank you. 

 VARNEY: Thank you, Tom. 

 Next on MONEYLINE, "General Hospital" fans rejoice -- the daytime favorite and the rest of the ABC lineup return to millions of cable homes, as a corporate soap opera between Time Warner and Disney came to an end. Or did it? 

 Inside that latest round of strong economic news -- if five Fed rate hikes haven`t slowed home buyers yet, what will? 

 And a special report on the best and brightest of "B" school -- still bullish on dot-com careers, even with the Nasdaq in a bear market. 

 We`ll be back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: A bitter fight that played out on the airwaves came to a head today between Disney and Time Warner, parent of this network. The media titans agreed to restore ABC to Time Warner Cable Systems, where it was dropped during the critical May sweeps period. But the companies still face the task of working out a deal, and they faced blistering criticism less than an hour ago from FCC chief William Kennard, who said, TV viewers -- quote -- "should never be held hostage in these disputes." -- end quote. 

 Greg Clarkin has more on a corporate cliffhanger that still has industry insiders wondering what`s going to happen next. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It was a public resolution to what had become a very public battle. Time Warner calls an afternoon press conference to announce an offer to Walt Disney to restore ABC to  some of Time Warner`s cable systems. Minutes after outlining their offer, Time Warner executives received Disney`s response. They huddled, and returned with the news. 

 JOSEPH COLLINS, TIME WARNER CABLE: We are going to accept this, and hopefully, everybody will be able to watch Peter Jennings have tonight. 

 CLARKIN: The two sides agreed right there to restore ABC to the three-and-a-half million Time Warner cable subscribers who had lost the network. 

 TOM CANE, WABC: I`m really delighted that our viewers are back watching our product. They were put in a place midnight, Sunday night that they never should have been put in. 

 CLARKIN: But the agreement just extends the expired deal between the two companies until July 15. Time Warner wanted a much longer extension, either 10 years or at least until October 15. Disney executives crossed that out and wrote in July 15, and Collins said he was -- quote -- reluctantly agreeing to it. But the issues between the two remain the same. 

 JOSEPH COLLINS, TIME WARNER CABLE: Well, you know the old saying, that if somebody tells you it`s not about money, that it`s about money, and it is about money. It`s, in fact, at the end of the negotiations, the amount of money was about $300 million. So it`s a lot of money. 

 CLARKIN: The basic dispute is how much Time Warner compensates Disney for running its cable channels. So the two companies now are faced with trying to reach a new deal in two-and-a-half months -- Something they hadn`t been able to do since late last year. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: Now we are outside ABC studios in Times Square, where such shows as "Good Morning America" originate. And all total, ABC shows were off the air about 39 hours due to this dispute, but if it`s any consolation to the network, it`s runaway hit, "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?," was by and away the ratings winner last night, despite not being on cable systems, Time Warner Cable systems New York, Los Angeles and elsewhere. 

 Stuart, Back to you. 

 VARNEY: That`s important. 

 Greg Clarkin reporting, thank you. 

 Well, ABC viewers affected by the dispute may soon forget all about it once they see their favorite programs on the air. But TV insiders and Wall Street analysts will not, struggling to assess who won this important skirmish and why. 

 Our next guest says this is round one. Media watcher Porter Bibb joins us now here on MONEYLINE. 

 Porter, welcome back. 

 PORTER BIBB, TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS: Thank you, Stuart, it`s good to be here. 

 VARNEY: If this is round one, who blinked? 

 BIBB: Well, I`d have to say the mouse roared and Time Warner blinked in this case, because bottom line, they lost 3.5 million households, but the ratings barely show up the loss. It`s ABC, so they`re still number one. 

 VARNEY: Short term, it was Time Warner that blinked in this dispute? 

 BIBB: I think the telephone calls from the irate cable subscribers to Time Warner`s headquarters was a big factor in a quick settlement. 

 VARNEY: Now look down the road longer term for us. And of course we don`t know what the exact settlement will be down the road, but with this dispute as a backdrop, who is the winner and who is the loser long term here? 

 BIBB: I think that Joe Collins put it very succinctly, "If they say it`s not about money, it`s about money." And this is about hundreds of millions of dollars worth of payments to Time Warner or Time Warner must make to Disney for their cable assets. I think that in the long run, Time Warner is trading on very thin ice. They have a major deal with AOL (URL: http://www.aol.com/) that`s about to consummate later this year. They can`t afford to upset the FCC, which is still forced I think tomorrow to make a ruling on having -- Time Warner`s having pulled the plug. So they`re not in a situation where they want to rock any boat. And July 15 is going to be here in the blink of the eye, and I think this matter will get resolved. 

 VARNEY: In the middle of this dispute, a spokesperson for Disney said, "Time Warner is acting like a monopoly." Now that`s a loaded expression, bearing in mind what`s happened to Microsoft as a proven monopoly. 

 BIBB: It makes an even better memo that Bob Iger circulated to ABC employees, that said, if they`ll do this on television and cable, think what they`ll do when they`re AOL-Time Warner and they do it on the Internet. 

 VARNEY: Was Disney trying to do something to disrupt the AOL-Time Warner merger? 

 BIBB: I think Disney is very, very unhappy about the merger, and they thought they saw a window here that could cause some trouble. 

 VARNEY: Did it cause any trouble, do you think? 

 BIBB: I don`t think so, no. It`s an embarrassment to both companies. 

 VARNEY: Last question -- Time Warner, AOL -- the two companies together have content and distributions. Disney, at the moment, does not have much distribution -- it`s all content. 

 BIBB: It`s all content. 

 VARNEY: does it have to go out and get a distributor. 

 BIBB: Not with the Internet usurping the audience that the networks and the cable audience represents today. I think long term, Disney is in a very good position, but near term, yes, they will have to find more distribution. 

 Porter Bibb, welcome back to MONEYLINE. It was a pleasure. 

 BIBB: I`d just like to add, the one person who`s going to pay is going to  be us, you and I, because it`s always in the consumers` best interest to keep the television coming, and we have to pay for it. 

 BIBB: Thank you very much, Porter Bibb, pleasure to have you with us again. 

 BIBB: Great. 

 VARNEY: Best Foods said late today it rejected an unsolicited $18 billion offer off from Dutch fuel giant Unilever  (URL: http://www.unilever.com/) . Bestfoods (URL: http://www.bestfoods.com/) called the Unilever offer of $66 shares "financially inadequate. However, that is a premium for Best Foods of more than 30 percent. Best Foods, which makes products ranging from Hellmann`s Mayonnaise to Skippy Peanut Butter, closed just above 50.5 today. 

 Now let`s check some of tonight`s "MONEYLINE Movers." We have BroadVision (URL: http://www.broadvision.com/) up nearly 4 points. Goldman Sachs` (URL: http://www.gs.com/) Rick Sherlund added the e-business software maker to Goldman`s recommended list. C.S. First Boston also upgraded Broadvision to a strong buy. Pacific Sunwear plunged more than 9 3/4. USB Piper Jaffrey downgraded the retailer, citing slower growth and revised earnings expectations. Late yesterday, the company reported disappointing same-store sales. And Vixel soared almost six points; that better than 37 percent. Lucent will use the company`s switching technology to connect storage networks over long distances. 

 Despite today`s gains, Vixel (URL: http://www.vixel.com/) is still down 74 percent from its high. 

 In tonight`s "Tech Watch," an end to one of the longest-running searches for an Internet executive. After more than 10 months, the Motley Fool has finally named its first chief executive officer. According to "The Industry Standard" magazine, that 41-week search is a new record. The financial-advice company named 30-year Coke veteran Patrick Garner as its chief executive Fool. Yes, that is exactly the new title. Brothers Tom and David Gardner will remain co-chairmen of the company they founded nearly seven years ago. 

 Coming up: high mortgage rates no match for consumers on a mission. New home sales surge unexpectedly last month. A look at what that might mean for the Fed, when MONEYLINE returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: The nation`s biggest automakers out with their latest sales figures. Ford Motor (URL: http://www.ford.com/) reporting a sharp rise in April auto sales. It cited a 25 percent jump in sales for its Explorer sport utility. The automaker also benefited from strong results at its Jaguar  and Volvo lines. For the month, Ford Motor reported a 12 percent jump in overall sales. At General Motors (URL: http://www.gm.com/) , a much smaller gain, up just 2 percent in April. GM blamed weak car sales. At DaimlerChrysler (URL: http://www.daimlerchrysler.com) , car and light truck sales rose nearly 6 percent. Very little reaction on wall street to those numbers, with the major automakers ending the day mixed. GM, by the way, is trading just below its 52-week high. 

 Consumers are buying cars clearly, but also buying homes. Even with higher mortgage rates, new economic data out today points to a housing market that`s in full gear. New home sales went through the roof last month, up an unexpected 4.5 percent. 

 Kitty Pilgrim takes a closer look at the numbers and what they could mean for the Fed. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 KITTY PILGRIM, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Nothing demonstrates the red hot economy as well as the housing boom. In this New York suburb, prosperity hits you over the head with a 2x4. 

 ROBBYN FRITZ, MONTBELLO PINES: We have walking in here, wish they had a house yesterday. Now what we`re doing as a companies is we`re putting up 

 10 spec houses. Now that`s the first time we`ve really done this in three years, the to meet the demand of people that are selling their homes way faster than they thought they ever would, and they need something immediately. 

 PILGRIM: New home sales in March beat even optimistic expectations, well above the 900,000 mark for the fourth consecutive month. And the average price of U.S. homes popped above the $200,000 mark, an indication builders are charging more and people are trading up. 

 Many people, including economists, expect interest rates to climb still further, and are looking to clinch a mortgage sooner rather than later, trying to outwit the Fed. 

 BRUCE BARTLETT, NATL. CTR. FOR POLICY ANALYSIS: But the Fed`s dilemma here is that things like new home sales, long-term investment, are driven by long-term rates, and long-term rates are relatively low. 

 PILGRIM: The Fed has raised rates five times since last June, and mortgage rates for a 30-year fixed rate are hovering around 8 percent, with only slight signs rates are cooling either the housing or financial markets. In addition to the housing numbers, the latest look ahead shows the leading economic indicators index up 1/10 of a percent, which points to  continued prosperity six to nine months down the road. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 PILGRIM: That has many betting that the Fed will raise rates 50 basis points at the next meeting on May 16, certainly something that can`t be discounted after today`s economic data -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Thanks, Kitty Pilgrim. 

 Now today`s strong economic data fueled interest rate jitters all over again, investors worried the fed will raise interest rates perhaps  by 50 basis points at its May 16 policy meeting instead of its 25 basis points that the market recently was expecting. Bond investors could be in store for more volatility this week, with Alan Greenspan expected to speak on Thursday and then on Friday, the all-employment April employment report is due out that day. Both the 10 and 30-year bond issues ended lower today. The yield on the 10-year note now stands at 6.3 percent. The 30 year -- that bond fell 11 ticks, and the yield there moving up to just over six percent even. 

 Also trumping bond traders, rising commodity prices. The CRB Index tacked on another full point today, to close at 216.85. Behind today`s jump: rising cotton prices and a big jump in crude oil. Yesterday, the index posted its biggest one-day point gain since March of 1998. The CRB Index has been on a steady incline over the past 10 months, and is now standing just slightly below its high of the year, which was set on March 16. 

 Coming up on MONEYLINE, U.S. forces ready to take action against Puerto Rican protesters. We`ll tell you about the standoff on Vieques after the break. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: U.S. forces standing by tonight for a sweep to clear protesters from the Puerto Rican island of Vieques. 

 More on that now from Jim Moret in the MONEYLINE news digest -- Jim. 

 JIM MORET, CNN ANCHOR: Thanks, Stuart. U.S. law enforcement officials and Puerto Rican police are poised to swoop down on about 50 protesters on Vieques, about six miles off Puerto Rico. Two U.S. warships are nearby, with troops expected to move in after the sweep. The demonstration began last June, demanding the U.S. Navy give up its bombing range on the island. But Puerto Rico is extending the Navy`s use of Vieques. Opponents say they will risk arrest to fight the U.S. military presence. No word yet on when officials might act. 

 In Miami, more repercussions from the Elian Gonzalez raid. Cuban immigrant Raul Martinez was today sworn in as police chief, replacing William O`Brien. He quit over a dispute with Miami`s mayor about the raid. Also today, Philippines troops traded gunfire with separatist rebels holding 21 hostages, including 10 tourists. The Muslim rebels are threatening to behead two of their captives, who were kidnapped from a Malaysian resort on Easter Sunday. 

 And new findings on last year`s deadly bonfire collapse at Texas A&M University. Investigators said faulty construction and poor oversight contributed to that accident. They found school officials had only a limited role in supervising the project. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 HUGH ROBINSON, BONFIRE COMMISSION: The completed bonfire can weigh over two million pounds -- more than two fully loaded 747 jumbo jets. Yet design and construction have remained almost the exclusive purview of students. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 MORET: Twelve people died when the bonfire gave way last November. 

 I`ll have on those stories and much more on "THE WORLD TODAY." That`s at 8:00 p.m. Eastern, 5:00 on the West Coast -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Jim, thank you. 

 Coming up in our next half-hour, the cable TV truce that brought "Millionaire" back to millions of screens: the return of ABC -- we`ll have more on the news that made it happen. Plus, the market shakes as two giants tumble. We`ll tell you about the fallout from AT&T and Microsoft. And with Net stocks sinking, do Harvard MBA`s still dream of spinning their own piece of the Web? We`ll tell you what they`re saying. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s headlines: AT&T`s stock slides nearly 15 percent. Has Michael Armstrong`s broadband bet hit a wall on Wall Street? 

 ABC is ready for primetime, reaching a truce with Time Warner. But will this cable clash have a sequel? 

 And the great dot-com dilemma: Are corporate America`s future executives still gunning for the Internet even after the Web bubble has burst? 

 First, though, more on our top story: Wall Street hit with a one- two punch. Two of the most widely held stocks knocking the wind out of the market. AT&T and Microsoft stumbled badly today, taking down both the Dow and the Nasdaq. The tech sell-off was a disappointing setback for the Nasdaq, which rallied more than 300 points in the previous three sessions. 

 The index held steady for most of this day, but then cratered in the last hour and a half of trading, closing down 172 points. That`s or more than 4 percent. 

 As for the Dow, it actually broke into positive territory in the early afternoon before turning lower again. It ended down 80 points. 

 AT&T`s stock today finished just above its 52-week low, trading at its lowest levels in seven months. The company reported earnings that were in line with analysts` expectations, but had a grim outlook for the future. The stock plunged nearly 6 3/4 points, almost 14 percent. It was the most actively traded stock on the big board, on five times its daily average volume. 

 The warning also weighed on MediaOne (URL: http://www.mediaonegroup.com/) , the cable company AT&T is in the process of buying. Ironically, it isn`t AT&T`s bold cable experiment that`s the big problem for the bottom line. No, it`s the business AT&T has dominated for more than a century, long distance. 

 Bruce Francis has more. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Investors slashed $22 billion from the former Ma` Bell as the old AT&T, the long- distance phone business, shriveled faster-than-expected, while the new cable-driven AT&T hasn`t yet kicked into high gear. 

 AT&T earned $1.7 billion last quarter, and the 53 cents a share profits came in as expected. But a surprisingly negative outlook shook analysts. MEL MARTEN, EDWARD JONES: One of the big disappointments for me this quarter was the business side of AT&T`s communication services, and this is, you know, their communication services focused on their business customers. And that is a rapidly growing market, and so having AT&T trim back their growth expectations there is certainly a disappointment. 

 FRANCIS: AT&T trimmed its profit outlook for all of this year from a previously forecasted range of 1.89 to 1.94 per share down to 1.80 to 1.85. 

 C. MICHAEL ARMSTRONG, CHAIRMAN & CEO, AT&T: What we`re trying to communicate to the street is an anticipation. Our growth businesses are going well, they`re going to ramp well. But we will have an impact, and bottom line, we`ll have about a 1 percent decline in our revenue growth and about a 5 percent in our operational earnings per share. 

 FRANCIS: A big part of the problem is AT&T`s consumer long distance business. Now, there`s more price-pinching competition than ever. Add to that, greater use of wireless phones, which often come with flat-rate long-distance charges bundled in, and the rising use of the Internet to transmit voice calls. 

 Adding to AT&T`s misery, a longer than expected approval process for AT&T`s acquisition of cable company MediaOne. 

 TIM HORAN, CIBC OPPENHEIMER: The problem from AT&T`s perspective is clearly the process is accelerating, and the new businesses, you know, have not hit the inflection point yet where they can offset that growth with the slower growth in the consumer long distance. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS: Oppenheimer`s Horan says that AT&T should split off its consumer business completely. He says it just doesn`t make sense for AT&T to try to be all things to all people when technology is changing so rapidly -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, Bruce Francis reporting. Thank you, Bruce. 

 AT&T`s bad news comes just as its tracking stock is trying to get off the ground. But even enthusiastic comments today from Wall Street could not shield AT&T Wireless from the selling. 

 Lehman Brothers (URL: http://www.lehman.com/) started the stock with a buy rating and said it should reach $45 a share by the end of next year. Merrill Lynch (URL: http://www.ml.com/) made AT&T Wireless (URL: http://www.attws.com/) a short- and long-term buy, and set a 12- to 18-month price target of $44 a share. Goldman Sachs, which took the business public, had the most bullish outlook, adding the stock to its recommended list and predicting it will hit $42 a share by  the end of the year. 

 But the strong support from Wall Street did not help. AT&T Wireless down 2 1/2 point today. However, it`s still up nearly 10 percent from last week`s debut. 

 Another big loser today: fellow Dow component Microsoft. The software giant  erased nearly all of its gains from yesterday after an influential tech analyst delivered some disappointing news to Microsoft investors. 

 Mary Meeker of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (URL: http://www.msdw.com/) said -- quote -- "We like the stock in the 60s. The trick here is that we believe the value of the whole is greater than the sum of the parts. But those parts are not chipped liver" -- end quote. 

 Meeker referring, of course, to the government`s proposed breakup of the software giant, and while she did go on to say that Microsoft shares should outperform over time, right now, the company is not her top stock pick. 

 Shares of Microsoft down more than 3 1/2 points today to around $70 a share. The software giant now stands more than 41 percent below its 52-week high. 

 As Microsoft prepares to ask for extra time to respond to the government`s proposal, friends of the software giant are attacking the breakup plan. They say what`s at issue is nothing less than the nation`s prosperity. 

 Steve Young has more on that. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Microsoft plans to ask Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson for several months` extension to gather information, lineup witnesses, possibly even probe the process which led to the state and federal breakup proposal. That delay could stall the process until there`s a new president, possibly a Republican, less eager than the current administration is to prosecute the software giant. 

 SEN. SLADE GORTON (R), WASHINGTON: Do I hope that a Republican administration, a Bush administration will take a different attitude? You bet I do. 

 I don`t think -- now, I`m not speaking for G.W. Bush myself -- but I don`t think a Republican administration would have brought this kind of litigation in the first place. 

 YOUNG: Microsoft`s friends are also fighting back. They note that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan says technology is responsible for important productivity gains. In fliers they warn that government interference could ruin the technology sector that many consider a national jewel, turning back the clock to far less prosperous times. 

 THOMAS SCHATZ, PRESIDENT, CAGW: There would be less innovation, which would clearly be less prosperity. And if you look at what`s happened with  the market, of course, since the conclusions of law issued by Judge Jackson, it`s clear that investors view part of the cause of the decline in the market on the Microsoft decision. 

 YOUNG: But some technology research organizations say the proposed remedy would allow the top 20 PC makers to sell computers configured any way they want so innovation would speed up. 

 CHRIS LE TOCO, GARTNER GROUP: Today, when somebody buys a system, Microsoft makes very sure that that somebody sees that as a Microsoft system, and the hardware vendor is very definitely in the background. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 YOUNG: Le Toco says if the proposed remedy goes into effect, hardware companies would be free to put Windows in the background and instead promote their own brand and offer new kinds of systems: for example, PCs especially tailored to small businesses -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: I have to ask you, would a Republican victory in November really help Microsoft? 

 YOUNG: Not to make light of it, it couldn`t hurt. But it would be very difficult, even for a Bush administration, to drop the whole case, and the company would still be facing those 19 states. 

 VARNEY: Fair enough. Steve Young reporting, thank you, Steve. 

 The main target of today`s selloff was the Nasdaq, but there weren`t many bright spots elsewhere. The S&P 500 tumbled 21 points. That`s a loss of 1 1/2 percent. 

 Big board losers outnumbered winners by a nearly 3-to-2 margin, and there were 56 stocks that hit 52-week highs, 42 hit new lows. 

 The day`s big standouts included Intel, which was down nearly six. Cisco lost almost 3 1/2, and Sun (URL: http://www.sun.com/) Microsystems was off 3 3/4. Yahoo! (URL: http://www.yahoo.com/) down more than 8 1/2. eBay (URL: http://www.ebay.com/) skidded 12 1/4 points on the day. 

 As for volume, well, it`s been anemic this week, which some analysts say is  a sign of extreme uncertainty about the market. From the beginning of the year until the end of March, an average 1.7 billion shares changed hands on the Nasdaq each day. In the past week, that average has dropped to less than 1.5 billion shares a day. 

 Weak volume only exaggerates volatility in a market that has already seen its share of wild swings this year. In 1990, the Nasdaq moved up or down an average of 0.7 percent each day. Since January, the average move has been a whopping 2.6 percent per day. 

 Today, no exception: The Nasdaq moved more than 4 percent to the downside. 

 Coming up, Time Warner and Disney reach a tentative agreement, bringing Regis back to millions of cable customers. But stay tuned. The dispute between the media titans is not over yet. We`ll explain when MONEYLINE continues. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s MONEYLINE "Focus," Time Warner cable viewers  who watch ABC`s "Who Wants to be a Millionaire" can once again play along. The Disney-owned network is back after a day and a half of being off Time Warner`s cable systems. Time Warner, parent of this  network, today offered to reinstate transmission of ABC and the network was very quick to accept. A fax from Disney interrupted Time Warner cable`s live press conference with a response: it will accept, for now. A tentative deal puts ABC back on Time Warner cable until July 15. Shares of Disney climbed following the agreement while Time Warner continued to drop. 

 For more on what`s at stake for the two entertainment giants, we turn to 

 Casey Wian. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CASEY WIAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): ABC`s "Who Wants to be a Millionaire" helped Walt Disney`s TV division profit more than double in the first quarter of its current fiscal year. Without broadcasting, Disney would have lost money. So when Time Warner`s cable systems took ABC off the  air, most observes figured Disney had the most to lose. But Time Warner`s decision to restore ABC shows it`s not that simple. 

 DEBORAH MCADAMS, "BROADCASTING & CABLE" MAGAZINE: Undoubtedly, it cost ABC some money to be taken off in those markets, particularly during sweeps. On the other hand, it cost Time Warner I would say in terms of community relationships. You know, people don`t care, actually, customers don`t care what Time Warner`s position is, they don`t care what Disney`s position is, they just want television. 

 DARICE GRIPPO, JOHN HANCOCK ADVISERS: I think we`re really talking about money and power and it`s probably been exacerbated by the AOL-Time Warner merger announcement. I think it`s now a question of the balance of power between two very large media companies. 

 WIAN: Several analysts say Disney and Time Warner were close to settling their differences over cable fees late last year, but after AOL agreed to buy Time Warner in January, they say Disney demanded more money. 

 In recent days, Disney executives have complained publicly that the AOL-Time Warner deal would create a monopoly that should be examined by federal regulators, a message resonating with politicians. 

 MAYOR RUDOLPH GIULIANI (R), NEW YORK CITY: I think this is terrible, I think this is a terrible indication of what being an out of touch monopoly can do, because ultimately the people that suffer here are the consumers. 

 WIAN: While Disney lacks a cable distribution system of its own and its Internet strategy has been widely viewed as a failure, it is benefiting from a power shift in the cable TV business. 

 RICK SCHINDLER, "CABLEVISION" MAGAZINE: Disney is demanding an awful lot and they`re not being terribly polite about how they go about it. But as near as I can tell, they hold the cards. Gerry Levin, the head of  Time Warner himself I heard say, content is king. In this case, the content is ace of trump. Viewers -- you know, Disney is the content, Time Warner is the pipe that the content comes through. If viewers can`t get the content through Time Warner, they will go through another pipe. 

 WIAN (on camera): How this dispute is ultimately resolved is likely to have a significant impact on the balance of power and distribution of wealth between television programmers and cable companies. 

 Casey Wian, CNN Financial News, Los Angeles. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: All of this comes ahead of Disney`s quarterly earnings report that is due out tomorrow. Wall Street is looking for earnings of around 14 cents a share. 

 Coming up, a wireless pioneer gets a vote of confidence as rumors swirl that the company is on the block. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: After the bell, a multibillion dollar takeover offer rebuffed. Best Foods has rejected a more than $18 billion unsolicited buy out bid from the Dutch consumer products maker Unilever. Best Foods calls the offer "financially inadequate." Unilever has been on a buying binge, agreeing to buy Slim Fast and Ben & Jerry`s last month alone. 

 And disappointing after-the-bell news takes a huge bite out of Novell (URL: http://www.Novell.com/) shares. The business software maker warned late today that it would report significantly lower earnings and revenues for the quarter just ended. The company now expects to make 8 cents a share, half what Wall Street had expected. Novell blames a drop in sales through its distributors. The stock got slammed in after-hours trading, down  more than 4 1/2 points, that`s a loss of more than a 1/4 of its value. 

 In tonight`s MONEYLINE "Movers," H&R Block (URL: http://www.handrblock.com/) sank more than 7 1/2 points after the company said it would lose $18 million for the fiscal year 2000, hit by costs in its electronic filing business. Cabletron Systems (URL: http://www.cabletron.com/) up more than 2 after the networking equipment maker said that investment firm Silverlake  Partners would buy an additional $25 million worth of its stock. 

 Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) surged nearly 4 points after Lehman Brothers reiterated its buy rating and put a $180 price target on the stock. And rumors emerged that Nokia (URL: http://www.nokia.com/) was looking to buy Qualcomm, but both companies declined comment, and analysts told CNNFN they were skeptical. Closing today at nearly 113 3/4, Qualcomm is still 43 percent off its 52-week high. 

 In tonight`s "Sector Focus," oil services on a roll, the sector boosted by  hopes for major oil companies to raise their capital spending. This as crude prices surged again on OPEC`s reluctance to pump up oil production. Check those stocks: Schlumberger (URL: http://www.slb.com/) rose more than 2 1/2, Diamond Offshore (URL: http://www.diamondoffshore.com/) jumped more than 3 1/4 -- both of those stocks hitting new 52-week highs -- Baker Hughes (URL: http://www.bakerhughes.com/) up nearly 2, and Halliburton (URL: http://www.halliburton.com/) gained more than 3 on the day. 

 Next on MONEYLINE: back to "B" school. In the wake of the Nasdaq nightmare, are the MBA candidates of Harvard having second thoughts about seeking an online career? A special report coming up for you next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: A special report tonight on the pulse of the next generation of business leaders. As Web stocks falter on Wall Street, has the class of 2000 turned sour on the dot-com revolution or do MBA students still see the new economy as the way of the future? 

 We sent Fred Katayama back to school for an answer. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A week of reckoning at the Harvard Business School. Some students cram for finals. Others compete in the final round of a contest for entrepreneurs. 

 MICHAEL ROBERTS, HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL: This the fourth-annual  HBS Business Plan Contest awards ceremony. 

 KATAYAMA: And at least, one contestant has to make a final decision soon whether to take the traditional route of joining an investment bank or her fellow classmates in an Internet startup. 

 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I have some pretty tough decisions to make. 

 KATAYAMA: But the mood around them has suddenly changed. Tech stocks plummeted in spring, Internet stocks in particular, and many analysts see a shakeout coming. 

 But the keynote speakers, who were finalists last year with their dot-com plan, assured them it`s a great time to be an entrepreneur. 

 JON BURGSTONE, SUPPLIERMARKET.COM: And we really spent the last 12 months working very, very hard to turn that plan into a real company. 

 KATAYAMA: Last June, Jon Burgstone and Asif Satchu were working out of their dorm rooms. Just one year later, their plan turned into this: 125 employees running an online marketplace that ties buyers with suppliers of industrial parts. 

 SupplierMarket.com plans to go public this month despite the rumbles on Wall Street. 

 ASIF SATCHU, SUPPLIERMARKET.COM: Once we are public company, you know, I`m going to get a lot of calls congratulating me, and that`s started to happen already. 

 KATAYAMA (on camera): Back at Harvard Business School, dot-com fever is still gripping the campus. Despite the recent weakness of many Internet companies and their stocks, most of the students we spoke to remain optimistic about business prospects online. But a few expressed concern. 

 (voice-over): Ewa Herbik graduates next year, but she is veering away from her dream of going to work for herself. 

 EWA HERBIK, HBS STUDENT: Either consulting or going into the consumer product industry -- I`m not sure yet -- given the flavor of what`s happening right now and the huge change in the market. 

 KATAYAMA: Paul Chin`s Internet travel company did not get off the ground. He`ll go to work for Microsoft. 

 PAUL CHIN, HBS STUDENT: I think Microsoft is a good, safe bet in the meantime until I make a next (UNINTELLIGIBLE). 

 KATAYAMA: But not first-year student Gabe Knapp. He says a stock slump can produce a financial grand slam. 

 GABRIEL KNAPP, HBS STUDENT: I think a lot of the volatility presents an opportunity to people who go to dot-coms, because, you know, for some reason the stock price does decrease either internally or externally if it is a public company, then that just gives you a lower strike price in your options. 

 KATAYAMA: Back at the contest, almost all of this year`s entries were Internet-related. Before the awards are announced, the chief judge, a leading venture capitalist, gives the entrants some advice. 

 PAUL MAEDER, HIGHLAND CAPITAL PARTNERS: My first and only comment about the public comments is my advice to you, is ignore them. As we know the markets are wholly irrational... 

 KATAYAMA: Bang Networks, a team comprising students from Harvard and MIT, wins a $20,000 first price for its plan to create an Internet infrastructure firm. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We`ve started the company. We`re going to move out to California. 

 KATAYAMA: But one teammate, Sara Boughton (ph), is still considering a job on Wall Street. 

 KATAYAMA (on camera): Which way are you leaning? 

 SARA BOUGHTON, HBS STUDENT: At this moment... 

 (LAUGHTER) 

 I`d love to be a part of Bang. But I`m going to have to speak to some people about that. 

 KATAYAMA (voice-over): But even should Bang turn to bust, many companies are so short on talent finding a job for these students in the new economy may not be so hard. 

 Fred Katayama, CNN Financial News, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: And up next, "Ahead of the Curve," what you need to know tonight before those markets open again tomorrow. You`re watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Walt Disney expected to make headlines tomorrow and not just in its dispute with Time Warner. Disney is expected to report second-quarter results of 14 cents a share, only a penny better than last year. Analysts cite weak performance at its them parks and no real blockbuster at the box office. 

 Also on tap for tomorrow, first-quarter earnings from Global Crossing (URL: http://www.globalcrossing.bm/) . The Street`s expecting a loss of 43 cents. 

 The biotech company Chiron Corporation  (URL: http://www.chiron.com/) due to hit the street with earnings of 16 cents a share. That would be up two cents from last year. On the economic front, the latest figures on the nation`s factories and the Fed`s regional look at the economy. It`s called the Beige Book. Plus, Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers speaks at the National Press Club in Washington. 

 And that is MONEYLINE for this Tuesday night. I`m Stuart Varney, and we thank you for joining us. 

 CROSSFIRE is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material  except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any  fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than  250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not  a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw5200081




 AT&T Suffers As Investors Still Focus On Long-Distance 

1,089 words
2 May 2000
19:25
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 By Johnathan Burns 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- A profit warning is never good news, and AT&T Corp. (T) proved Tuesday that no matter your long-term strengths, Wall Street punishes near-term weakness. 

 After reporting operating earnings per share of 53 cents in the first quarter - which met Wall Street's expectations - on profits of $1.73 billion versus 61 cents on $1.72 billion a year ago, Chief Executive Michael Armstrong lowered year-end earnings per share estimates to between $1.80 and $1.85. The company had previously said full-year 2000 earnings per share would be between $1.89 and $1.94. 

 Investors reacted quickly, slapping the company's stock down by more than 15% in furious trading. 

 Wall Street was surprised by the warning, which basically lowered earnings estimates for the second half of the year due to a greater-than-expected decline in long-distance revenue and missed savings opportunities due to the delayed merger with MediaOne Group Inc. (UMG). 

 "People hear slower growth and they want to get out," said Patrick Comack, analyst with Guzman & Co. "Some people just don't invest in stocks that are showing (segments with) revenue loss." 

 Some would argue that AT&T is a victim of its own success. 

 Because it still owns more than 50% of the consumer long-distance market, increasing competition has bruised the company worse than its peers, said Brian Adamik, consultant with The Yankee Group. 

 "Competition in the core long-distance business continues to be ferocious," he said. "When you're the big giant, you get hit harder." 

 But AT&T's long-distance revenue, which will decline by 6% to 8% by year-end due to competition and expected regulatory changes lowering some of the company's charges, are not the signs most Wall Street observers now use to judge the behemoth's performance. 

 "If they can execute on their cable strategy, this stock will move up," said Donna Jaegers, assistant portfolio manager with the Invesco Telecom Fund. "I always look at what a company is doing strategically. I think certainly the cable side will blossom during the second half of the year." 

 Wall Street, however, is not patient. 

 Invesco's Jaegers said the Street was too optimistic about AT&T's long-distance business. Now, there's some sense that the investment community is too sensitive about the decline in revenue. 

 "All the bad news is discounted in the stock," she said. 

 In the first quarter, AT&T's revenue increased 12% to $15.84 billion from $14.1 billion a year ago. The company's operating earnings per share of 53 cents were lower than those of a year ago due to the acquisition of Tele-Communications Inc. and the dilutive effect of the subsequent issuance of about 450 million new shares. 

 Analysts say wise investors will begin shifting their focus from AT&T's long-distance business to its wireless- and cable-units performances. 

 The wireless business, which now trades under the AT&T Wireless Group Corp. (AWE) designation, has almost 10 million customers. 

 Within a few years, long distance will account for less than a third of the company's revenue, said S&P Equity Group analyst Philip Wohl. 

 "Long distance is not where they are targeted anymore," he said. "The operating earnings were relatively the same. They are adjusting. If they had said their cable business was bad, that would have been a disaster." 

 Cable is AT&T's big bet. 

 When its deal with MediaOne finally closes, AT&T will be the nation's largest long-distance company and largest cable service provider. The deal's close has been pushed back to late June or early July and is partially responsible for the downward earnings revisions the company issued. 

 "I think the implementation of the cable strategy has not taken off as quickly as they thought," said Adamik of Yankee Group. "I think the closing of the MediaOne deal will begin changing that." 

 AT&T has spent an estimated $110 billion acquiring TCI and MediaOne and is spending additional billions upgrading TCI's antiquated cable systems. MediaOne is generally regarded as one of the technology leaders in the cable-plant field. 

 AT&T hopes to sell its customers video, telephony and Internet and data access along its cable lines, Comack said. "I think at the end of the day, AT&T is going to be a major winner. I think their long-term story is still intact." 

 Already, in the markets where its cable telephony and digital cable services are available, AT&T is showing significant customer additions, said Jaegers. 

 Churn, or the number of customers who drop service, is less than 1%, compared to 5% for long-distance companies, she said. 

 For the near term, the company has got to execute, Jaegers added. 

 "On the wireless side, we have concerns they are going to be hit with more competition," she said. "On the cable side, they've got to improve execution. You only get paid on a bet if your company wins." 

 The company seems to be listening. In the first quarter, the company had 2 million digital cable subscribers and intends to end the year with as many as 3 million. The company also expects to have as many as 500,000 cable telephony subscribers and 700,000 cable Internet and data customers by year-end. 

 "We are going to focus on execution," said Chief Financial Officer Charles Noski. "We've got two businesses, wireless and (cable), firing on all cylinders. We've got two that aren't. We're going to manage the decline in the long-distance consumer business for earnings and cash flow. In the business services segment, there is some fixing that is well underway." 

 But it takes a while to turn a big ship, Wohl said. 

 That may not be good enough for investors looking for near-term stock price gains. 

 "The catalysts are out there, but they're out far," Wohl said. "I think investors want to see something soon." 


Shares of AT&T ended trading on the New York Stock Exchange at 41
15/16, down 6 11/16, or 13.8% on volume of 49 million compared with
average daily volume of 11.7 million.
   -Johnathan Burns; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2020;
johnathan.burns@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010805dw5201uxi




 AT&T Stock Down Over  Profit Warning 

 By BRUCE MEYERSON 
AP Business Writer
701 words
2 May 2000
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2000 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - AT&T's stock slid 14 percent Tuesday as the company issued its first profit warning under chief executive C. Michael Armstrong, fueling worries about whether his radical remake of the nation's largest long-distance company will succeed. 

 The disappointing forecast, which came as AT&T posted first-quarter results that met most expectations, dampened the enthusiasm created by last week's initial public offering of $10.6 billion worth of stock in the company's wireless business. 

 In fact, shares of the new AT&T Wireless Group also fell Tuesday even as three major brokerages initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" recommendation. 

 Predictably, price wars in consumer long-distance ranked high among the culprits that prompted AT&T's revised outlook. 

 Job cuts in that unit are already a major part of Armstrong's plan to cut $2 billion in costs during 2000, and the company reported Tuesday that 6,200 workers were notified in the first quarter that their positions are being eliminated, mostly in long-distance. 

 It wasn't clear, however, whether the worsening backdrop for long-distance would lead to even more aggressive cost-cutting in that unit. Still, since cost cuts totaled only $300 million in the first quarter, there would seem to be plenty of pain to come this year. 

 "We're not going to speculate on job cuts, although we're certainly going to focus on the cost infrastructure of all legacy businesses," said chief financial officer Charles Noski, referring to AT&T's traditional telephone operations. 

 More unexpected than the troubles in consumer long-distance was the weakness AT&T reported in the far more profitable business of providing long-distance service to companies and other high-volume users, as well as the revelation of regulatory delays in the company's purchase of cable provider MediaOne. 

 The discouraging update raised new questions about AT&T's ambitious bid to become a new-age communications company, highlighted by an investment of more than $100 billion to buy and upgrade cable systems for telephone calls and high-speed Internet services. 

 Investors, already slightly dubious about whether a company so large can pull off such a dramatic transformation, wasted no time in trashing the stock. AT&T fell $7.12 1/2 per share to $41.87 1/2 , finishing only a shade above its 52-week low, while AT&T Wireless fell $3.25 a share to $32, also on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 In a conference call following Tuesday's profit report, AT&T said it now expects to produce full-year operating profits of between $1.80 and $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94. 

 In the first three months of this year, AT&T earned $1.73 billion, or 53 cents a share, excluding one-time factors and some ownership interests that produced a net profit of $1.74 billion, or 54 cents a share, for the quarter. 

 The operating profit matched the 53 cents expected by most analysts, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 In last year's first quarter, AT&T posted an operating profit of $1.72 billion, but the per-share breakdown amounted to a heftier 61 cents because the company had not yet issued an avalanche of new stock in its purchase of cable provider Tele-Communications Inc. After one-time items, AT&T's net income totaled $1.08 billion, or 38 cents a share, in the first quarter of 1999. 

 Revenues came to $15.84 billion in the latest quarter, up 5.8 percent from the combined revenues of $14.97 billion posted a year ago by AT&T and the soon-to-be acquired operations of TCI and IBM Global Network, an Internet services business. 

 Wireless revenue grew more than 40 percent from year-ago levels, while revenues from business services such as high-speed Internet grew at a high-teen rate. 

AP-Earns-AT&T; D747NNA80

Document asp0000020010804dw52016fw




 AT&T falls on  profit warning , dragging market lower 

 By EILEEN GLANTON 
AP Business Writer
745 words
2 May 2000
22:53
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks fell broadly Tuesday after AT&T delivered a cautious profit outlook and investors took profits from a three-day rally in technology shares. Worries about rising interest rates hung over the market, keeping volume low and buyers scarce. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 172.63 to 3,785.45, its first decline in four sessions. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 80.66 to close at 10,731.12. 

 Broader market indicators also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 21.96 to 1,446.29. 

 AT&T fell 7 1/8 to 41 7/8 after lowering its earnings forecasts for fiscal year 2000, saying the competitive long-distance market is cutting into consumer phone revenue. AT&T said it now expects to produce full-year operating profits of between $1.80 and $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94. 

 For the first quarter, AT&T posted operating profit of $1.73 billion, or 53 cents per share, matching the estimates of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Shares of AT&T's new Wireless Group fell 2 1/2 to 32 3/4. 

 Technology stocks were mixed after three days of solid gains as investors took some profits. Microsoft gave back its Monday advance and fell 3 9/16 to 69 7/8. 

 Microsoft's decline came after Mary Meeker, an influential technology stock analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said she believes the stock is fairly valued in the 60s. Meeker said in a research note she believes the proposal to break the company in two to satisfy antitrust concerns is an excessive punishment. 

 "Remember, we aren't at all opposed to disciplining Microsoft, but we think a break up is simply too harsh," Meeker wrote. 

 Several other prominent technology stocks rose. Broadcom rose 7 3/4 to 182 and Qualcomm gained 3 15/16 to 113 11/16. 

 The broader market was fairly quiet, hemmed in by a lack of news on inflation. The Federal Reserve holds its next policymaking meeting on May 16, and many investors expect the Fed to raise interest rates by a quarter-percentage point. Recent signs of booming economic growth have stimulated some concerns that the Fed could raise rates by as much as a half-percentage point. 

 Higher interest rates are generally bad for stocks, so fears of a sharper-than-expected increase are likely to hang over the market until the Fed's next meeting, analysts said. 

 "Some people have gone to the sidelines to wait for the employment data due out Friday," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Co. "There's no sense of doom, but investors are definitely waiting for more data to gauge the strength of the economy." 

 Economic surveys released Tuesday showed little evidence of a slowdown to more sustainable levels. The Commerce Department said new home sales rose in March to their second-highest level on record, indicating that Americans are unfazed by rising mortgage rates. 

 "The Fed obviously has more work to do," said Michael Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc. Moran believes that the odds of a half-percentage point boost to rates are increasing. 

 "The expectations in the market have shifted to such a degree that the Fed might appear timid if it moves only 25 basis points," Moran said. 

 Also, the Conference Board said its Index of Leading Economic Indicators, which is designed to predict economic activity three to six months ahead, rose 0.1 percent in March, indicating continued growth. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 9-to-7 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 NYSE composite volume totaled 1.22 billion shares, compared with 1.16 billion in the previous session. The Nasdaq, which recorded one of its quietest sessions of the year, saw seven stocks fall for every four that rose. 

 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 13.58 to 505.35. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.2 percent. Germany's DAX index rose 1.9 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 was up 0.7 percent, and France's CAC-40 was up 2.2 percent. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw52096u6




 AT&T falls on  profit warning , dragging market lower 

 By EILEEN GLANTON 
AP Business Writer
742 words
2 May 2000
22:25
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks fell broadly Tuesday after AT&T delivered a cautious profit outlook and investors took profits from a three-day rally in technology shares. Worries about rising interest rates hung over the market, keeping volume low and buyers scarce. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 172.63 to 3,785.45, its first decline in four sessions. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 80.66 to close at 10,731.12. 

 Broader market indicators also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 21.96 to 1,446.29. 

 AT&T fell 7 1/16 to 41 15/16 after lowering its earnings forecasts for fiscal year 2000, saying the competitive long-distance market is cutting into consumer phone revenue. AT&T said it now expects to produce full-year operating profits of between $1.80 and $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94. 

 For the first quarter, AT&T posted operating profit of $1.73 billion, or 53 cents per share, matching the estimates of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Shares of AT&T's new Wireless Group fell 3 to 32 1/4. 

 Technology stocks were mixed after three days of solid gains as investors took some profits. Microsoft gave back its Monday advance and fell 3 9/16 to 69 7/8. 

 Microsoft's decline came after Mary Meeker, an influential technology stock analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said she believes the stock is fairly valued in the 60s. Meeker said in a research note she believes the proposal to break the company in two to satisfy antitrust concerns is an excessive punishment. 

 "Remember, we aren't at all opposed to disciplining Microsoft, but we think a break up is simply too harsh," Meeker wrote. 

 Several other prominent technology stocks rose. Broadcom rose 7 3/4 to 182 and Qualcomm gained 3 15/16 to 113 11/16. 

 The broader market was fairly quiet, hemmed in by a lack of news on inflation. The Federal Reserve holds its next policymaking meeting on May 16, and many investors expect the Fed to raise interest rates by a quarter-percentage point. Recent signs of booming economic growth have stimulated some concerns that the Fed could raise rates by as much as a half-percentage point. 

 Higher interest rates are generally bad for stocks, so fears of a sharper-than-expected increase are likely to hang over the market until the Fed's next meeting, analysts said. 

 "Some people have gone to the sidelines to wait for the employment data due out Friday," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Co. "There's no sense of doom, but investors are definitely waiting for more data to gauge the strength of the economy." 

 Economic surveys released Tuesday showed little evidence of a slowdown to more sustainable levels. The Commerce Department said new home sales rose in March to their second-highest level on record, indicating that Americans are unfazed by rising mortgage rates. 

 "The Fed obviously has more work to do," said Michael Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc. Moran believes that the odds of a half-percentage point boost to rates are increasing. 

 "The expectations in the market have shifted to such a degree that the Fed might appear timid if it moves only 25 basis points," Moran said. 

 Also, the Conference Board said its Index of Leading Economic Indicators, which is designed to predict economic activity three to six months ahead, rose 0.1 percent in March, indicating continued growth. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 9-to-7 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1.01 billion shares, compared with 943.85 million in the previous session. The Nasdaq, which recorded one of its quietest sessions of the year, saw seven stocks fall for every four that rose. 

 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 13.58 to 505.35. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.2 percent. Germany's DAX index rose 1.9 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 was up 0.7 percent, and France's CAC-40 was up 2.2 percent. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw52096kp




 AT&T posts results in line with most expectations, but cuts forecasts 

 By BRUCE MEYERSON 
AP Business Writer
551 words
2 May 2000
20:30
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - AT&T's stock plunged Tuesday as the nation's largest provider of long distance and cable TV services met most expectations with a small gain in first-quarter operating profits, but warned of slower growth for the year. 

 The company earned $1.73 billion or 53 cents per share in the first three months of 2000, excluding one-time factors and the certain ownership interests that gave AT&T net income of $1.74 billion or 54 cents per share for the quarter. 

 The operating profit matched the 53 cents expected by most analysts, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 But in a conference call after this morning's report, AT&T cautioned that it now expects to produce full-year operating profits of between $1.80 and $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94. 

 In late morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange, AT&T was down $6 per share at $43, a loss of 12 percent. 

 The profit warning, the first from AT&T since C. Michael Armstrong took the helm in late 1997, was blamed on a variety of factors, including a faster-than-expected decline in revenue growth from the company's core long-distance consumer business. 

 The forecast also was revised to account for regulatory delays in closing the acquisition of the cable company MediaOne, postponing some of the financial benefits from combining that business with AT&T's cable operation. The deal had been expected to close this month, but will likely be completed in June, AT&T said. 

 More worrisome, however, was the disclosure of weakness in sales of long distance services to more valuable business customers, offsetting some of the strong growth in Internet, data and other services in that area. 

 Meanwhile, also in Tuesday's report, AT&T said 6,200 employees were notified during the first quarter that their jobs were being cut as part of this year's $2 billion cost-cutting program, mostly in the company's long-distance operations. 

 In last year's first quarter, AT&T posted an operating profit of $1.72 billion, but the per-share breakdown amounted to a heftier 61 cents because the company had not yet issued an avalanche of new stock in its purchase of cable provider Tele-Communications Inc. After one-time items, AT&T's net income totaled $1.08 billion or 38 cents a share in the first quarter of 1999. 

 Revenues came to $15.84 billion in the latest quarter, up 5.8 percent from the combined revenues of $14.97 billion posted a year ago by AT&T and the soon-to-be acquired operations of TCI and IBM Global Network, an Internet services business. 

 Wireless revenue grew more than 40 percent from year-ago levels, while revenues from business services such as high-speed Internet grew at a high-teen rate, the companys said. 

 The company finished the quarter with nearly 2 million subscribers to digital cable TV, with an average of 3,000 being added every day. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw52095ej




 Business Highlights 

1,296 words
2 May 2000
23:33
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Time Warner called a sudden truce Tuesday in the corporate brawl that deprived 3.5 million cable TV customers of ABC for more than 27 hours, restoring the channel in time for viewers to see "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire." 

 The cable company and the Walt Disney Co., ABC's parent, didn't settle their differences, but set a new deadline of July 15 for their negotiations over compensation for cable channels. 

 Customers had reacted angrily when Time Warner systems in seven cities, including New York, Houston and Los Angeles, stopped airing ABC programs at 12:01 a.m. Monday. The blackout started a run on rabbit-ear antennas and satellite TV systems. 

 --- 

 NEW YORK (AP) - AT&T's stock slid 15 percent Tuesday as the company issued its first profit warning under chief executive C. Michael Armstrong, fueling worries about whether his radical remake of the nation's largest long-distance company will succeed. 

 The disappointing forecast, which came as AT&T posted first-quarter results that met most expectations, dampened the enthusiasm created by last week's initial public offering of $10.6 billion worth of stock in the company's wireless business. 

 In fact, shares of the new AT&T Wireless Group also fell Tuesday even as three major brokerages initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" recommendation. 

 --- 

 NEW YORK (AP) - The U.S. economy is set to grow well into the second half of the year, according to reports released Tuesday, while the government provided fresh evidence in a separate report that rising interest rates have done little to dissuade new-home buyers. 

 Analysts said the figures pointed to further interest rate increases by inflation fighters at the Federal Reserve. 

 The Index of Leading Economic Indicators, which is designed to predict economic activity three to six months ahead, rose 0.1 percent in March, indicating continued growth, but at a lower pace than in the last six months, the Conference Board said. 

 Meanwhile, the Commerce Department said new-home sales rose in March to their second-highest level on record, and the National Association of Purchasing Management said the manufacturing industry will continue to prosper through the year. 

 --- 

 WASHINGTON (AP) - The strong performance of information technology companies should keep the U.S. economy steaming ahead this year, the Commerce Department predicted Tuesday in its annual forecast of winners and losers in American business. 

 The list of winners was dominated by computer and telecommunication companies. Businesses making semiconductors and related devices for computers led all others with a projected jump in shipments this year of 23 percent, which would follow a strong 22.2 percent gain in 1999. 

 In all, five of the top six spots in the list of fastest growing industries were held by companies involved in manufacturing computers or computer parts or telecommunication equipment, according to the department's "U.S. Industry and Trade Outlook 2000" report. 

 --- 

 DETROIT (AP) - With the economy in high gear, Americans continued to pour into auto dealerships in April, boosting sales of cars and light trucks by about 11 percent. 

 Some industry leaders said sales got a temporary boost with cut-rate financing deals and cash rebates that were too high to sustain. But nearly every automaker reported sales gains, with newer models driving much of the increase. 

 At its current seasonally adjusted sales rate, the industry is on track to sell 18.2 million light vehicles this year, compared to the record 16.9 million last year, according to Morgan & Co. of West Olive, Mich. 

 --- 

 LONDON (AP) - The London and Frankfurt stock exchanges are set to announce as early as Wednesday a plan to merge in a bid to create a European counterweight to Wall Street, sources close to the talks said. 

 The move would mark a major step toward creating a global market for the most affordable trading of stocks. 

 The two exchanges aren't stopping there. At least one major U.S. financial player - the Nasdaq Stock Market - will hold an unspecified stake in the new Anglo-German exchange, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 

 The London Stock Exchange and Germany's Deutsche Boerse will hold equal shares in the combined entity. The Deutsche Boerse approved the deal on Friday, and the London exchange planned to approve the merger Tuesday, the sources said. 

 --- 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Tower Air, the no-frills airline that filed for bankruptcy protection earlier this year, has halted all passenger service, leaving ticketholders scrambling to find space on other carriers. 

 "We are still operating charters and military flights but not passenger flights," Pam Buoninconcri, director of corporate relations for Tower, said Tuesday. 

 Passenger flights were discontinued Monday night. The airline had been flying to Los Angeles; Miami; San Juan, Puerto Rico; Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic and Tel Aviv, Israel. Flights to San Francisco; Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; Athens, Greece and Paris were dropped as problems mounted in recent months. 

 --- 

 WASHINGTON (AP) - Consumer advocates, unions, women's groups and religious leaders are protesting legislation that would make it tougher for people to erase debts through bankruptcy. 

 Officials of the groups and some Democratic lawmakers on Tuesday assailed the millions in campaign contributions by banks and credit card companies pushing the bipartisan legislation. 

 Prospects for its enactment appear stronger than in previous years. But the recent agitation against the legislation already seems to have had an effect: Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, said he would remove a provision from the Senate-passed bill that would let credit card companies take some bankrupt consumers' retirement assets to pay off debts. 

 --- 

 LONDON (AP) - The head of a consortium seeking to take over Rover's struggling car business in a last-ditch effort to save thousands of jobs said talks Tuesday with Germany's BMW about a buyout were "extremely positive." 

 Members of the so-called Phoenix consortium met with BMW executives in an urgent bid to prevent the closure of Britain's biggest auto plant. 

 The two sides held their first round of talks since the collapse of negotiations last week between BMW and its preferred buyer, British venture capital firm Alchemy Partners. 

 BMW is eager to dump Rover after failing for six years to stem the group's losses. It warned last week that it would shut down Rover's car operations if it doesn't find a buyer by the end of the month. 

 --- 

 CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP) - The Post and Courier this week began printing dime-sized bar codes that, when read with a hand-held scanner linked to a computer, take readers directly to related Web sites. 

 On Tuesday, the newspaper ran the codes in its masthead, next to a one-line weather forecast on the front page and in a reference box to charleston.net, its Web site. 

 About 100 people are testing the $100 scanners now. Pickens expects the costs eventually will be covered by advertisers, who would provide the scanners to readers for free. 

 --- 

 By The Associated Press 

 Stocks fell broadly Tuesday after AT&T delivered a cautious profit outlook and investors took profits from a three-day rally in technology shares. Worries about rising interest rates hung over the market, keeping volume low and buyers scarce. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 172.63 to 3,785.45, its first decline in four sessions. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 80.66 to close at 10,731.12. 

 Gasoline futures jumped 6 percent Tuesday on the New York Mercantile Exchange amid concerns about dwindling supplies just ahead of the summer driving season. 

 The gasoline rally also pulled crude oil prices sharply higher. In other markets, corn climbed to a 17-month high and copper rose to a six-week high. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw52093ta




 AT&T posts results in line with most expectations, but cuts forecasts 

 By BRUCE MEYERSON 
AP Business Writer
551 words
2 May 2000
12:53
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - AT&T's stock plunged today as the nation's largest provider of long distance and cable TV services met most expectations with a small gain in first-quarter operating profits, but warned of slower growth for the year. 

 The company earned $1.73 billion or 53 cents per share in the first three months of 2000, excluding one-time factors and the certain ownership interests that gave AT&T net income of $1.74 billion or 54 cents per share for the quarter. 

 The operating profit matched the 53 cents expected by most analysts, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 But in a conference call after this morning's report, AT&T cautioned that it now expects to produce full-year operating profits of between $1.80 and $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94. 

 In late morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange, AT&T was down $6 per share at $43, a loss of 12 percent. 

 The profit warning, the first from AT&T since C. Michael Armstrong took the helm in late 1997, was blamed on a variety of factors, including a faster-than-expected decline in revenue growth from the company's core long-distance consumer business. 

 The forecast also was revised to account for regulatory delays in closing the acquisition of the cable company MediaOne, postponing some of the financial benefits from combining that business with AT&T's cable operation. The deal had been expected to close this month, but will likely be completed in June, AT&T said. 

 More worrisome, however, was the disclosure of weakness in sales of long distance services to more valuable business customers, offsetting some of the strong growth in Internet, data and other services in that area. 

 Meanwhile, also in today's report, AT&T said 6,200 employees were notified during the first quarter that their jobs were being cut as part of this year's $2 billion cost-cutting program, mostly in the company's long-distance operations. 

 In last year's first quarter, AT&T posted an operating profit of $1.72 billion, but the per-share breakdown amounted to a heftier 61 cents because the company had not yet issued an avalanche of new stock in its purchase of cable provider Tele-Communications Inc. After one-time items, AT&T's net income totaled $1.08 billion or 38 cents a share in the first quarter of 1999. 

 Revenues came to $15.84 billion in the latest quarter, up 5.8 percent from the combined revenues of $14.97 billion posted a year ago by AT&T and the soon-to-be acquired operations of TCI and IBM Global Network, an Internet services business. 

 Wireless revenue grew more than 40 percent from year-ago levels, while revenues from business services such as high-speed Internet grew at a high-teen rate, the companys said. 

 The company finished the quarter with nearly 2 million subscribers to digital cable TV, with an average of 3,000 being added every day. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw52093qv




 AT&T stock tumbles as it cuts forecasts for profits 

 By BRUCE MEYERSON 
AP Business Writer
699 words
2 May 2000
23:13
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - AT&T's stock slid 14 percent Tuesday as the company issued its first profit warning under chief executive C. Michael Armstrong, fueling worries about whether his radical remake of the nation's largest long-distance company will succeed. 

 The disappointing forecast, which came as AT&T posted first-quarter results that met most expectations, dampened the enthusiasm created by last week's initial public offering of $10.6 billion worth of stock in the company's wireless business. 

 In fact, shares of the new AT&T Wireless Group also fell Tuesday even as three major brokerages initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" recommendation. 

 Predictably, price wars in consumer long-distance ranked high among the culprits that prompted AT&T's revised outlook. 

 Job cuts in that unit are already a major part of Armstrong's plan to cut $2 billion in costs during 2000, and the company reported Tuesday that 6,200 workers were notified in the first quarter that their positions are being eliminated, mostly in long-distance. 

 It wasn't clear, however, whether the worsening backdrop for long-distance would lead to even more aggressive cost-cutting in that unit. Still, since cost cuts totaled only $300 million in the first quarter, there would seem to be plenty of pain to come this year. 

 "We're not going to speculate on job cuts, although we're certainly going to focus on the cost infrastructure of all legacy businesses," said chief financial officer Charles Noski, referring to AT&T's traditional telephone operations. 

 More unexpected than the troubles in consumer long-distance was the weakness AT&T reported in the far more profitable business of providing long-distance service to companies and other high-volume users, as well as the revelation of regulatory delays in the company's purchase of cable provider MediaOne. 

 The discouraging update raised new questions about AT&T's ambitious bid to become a new-age communications company, highlighted by an investment of more than $100 billion to buy and upgrade cable systems for telephone calls and high-speed Internet services. 

 Investors, already slightly dubious about whether a company so large can pull off such a dramatic transformation, wasted no time in trashing the stock. AT&T fell $7.12 1/2 per share to $41.87 1/2 , finishing only a shade above its 52-week low, while AT&T Wireless fell $3.25 a share to $32, also on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 In a conference call following Tuesday's profit report, AT&T said it now expects to produce full-year operating profits of between $1.80 and $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94. 

 In the first three months of this year, AT&T earned $1.73 billion, or 53 cents a share, excluding one-time factors and some ownership interests that produced a net profit of $1.74 billion, or 54 cents a share, for the quarter. 

 The operating profit matched the 53 cents expected by most analysts, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 In last year's first quarter, AT&T posted an operating profit of $1.72 billion, but the per-share breakdown amounted to a heftier 61 cents because the company had not yet issued an avalanche of new stock in its purchase of cable provider Tele-Communications Inc. After one-time items, AT&T's net income totaled $1.08 billion, or 38 cents a share, in the first quarter of 1999. 

 Revenues came to $15.84 billion in the latest quarter, up 5.8 percent from the combined revenues of $14.97 billion posted a year ago by AT&T and the soon-to-be acquired operations of TCI and IBM Global Network, an Internet services business. 

 Wireless revenue grew more than 40 percent from year-ago levels, while revenues from business services such as high-speed Internet grew at a high-teen rate. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw52093of


 Accounting implications of SOP 98-2 for auditors 

 Sandra Pelfrey 
2,575 words
1 May 2000
The National Public Accountant
NPAC
16-19+
Volume 45, Issue 3; ISSN: 0027-9978
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. Copyright National Society of Public Accountants May 2000 

 Introduction 

 Following the aggressive marketing and donation campaigns entered into by many notfor-profit entities and the previously reported misappropriations of funds by a few of their managers, many newspapers have printed articles warning consumers to be cautious. They have suggested that it is appropriate for future donors to request copies of audited financial statements and/or copies of the entity's informational tax return prior to pledging funds. To what extent donors are following these directions is unknown, but any organization that solicits funds should be aware that these demands for information may be placed upon them. 

 The accounting profession has also taken steps to ensure that the information contained within these financial statements fairly reflects the activities and the costs of activities in which the entity was engaged. In 1998, the AICPA issued Statement of Position 98-2 (SOP) entitled "Accounting for Costs of Activities of Not-for-Profit Organizations and State and Local Governmental Entities That Include Fund Raising:' The SOP's purpose was to establish criteria that entities and their auditors can use to identify those costs that should properly be classified as fund raising. This is not the AICPAs first attempt at tackling this problem. In fact, SOP 87-2 was enacted for this purpose. It became evident shortly after that SOP became effective that it was not an effective guideline. 

 Most notably, an article in an October 1990 edition of the Wall Street Journal1 took nonprofit entities, their auditors, and specifically, the accounting profession to task for these reporting discrepancies. The article disclosed the practices of a not-for-profit entity regarding activities that were reported as program costs on its annual audited financial report. Briefly, the entity was reporting all costs associated with mailing information packages that also included solicitations for contributions under the label of program cost. These packages induded literature outlining the entity's cause, (protecting animals from being used for scientific research) and provided graphic examples of current practices. The organization stated that the proliferation of unwanted pets and the need to remove these animals yielded the excess absorbed by animal researchers. Included in the mailing was a request for pet owners to act responsibly and have their pets neutered. Even though the package solicited contributions, the entity and their auditors labeled all costs associated with the mailing as public education, and as such, included these costs with other program costs. 

 Further investigation disclosed that the entity was using all contributions received to purchase additional mailing lists from a for-profit marketing company. The entity reported that this practice would continue until the entity had established a suitable membership base to support other activities. The nonprofit animal league reported that 90 percent of donations were being used for program activities when the majority of these funds were going to the marketing firm. While only one specific example was cited in the newspaper article, its author reported that the practice of improperly categorizing program costs was commonplace among nonprofit entities. The author further chastised the accounting profession for allowing this misrepresentation, citing that this entity's financial statements had been audited and received an unqualified opinion from a reputable, international firm. Shortly after this and similar artides on the topic of questionable report content, the AICPA formed a committee to review this reporting problem and remove the ambiguities contained in SOP 87-2. The result is SOP 98-2. 

 SOP 98-2 Criteria 

 The first noticeable difference between SOP 98-2 and its predecessor is that 98-2 applies to any and all entities that solicit contributions. Both governmental and nonprofit entities are included. While all industries are included, the terminology of the SOP addresses the financial statements of voluntary health and welfare organizations which use the expense categories of program, management/general, and fund raising. Program costs are those expenses incurred by the organization to perform activities outlined by their mission statement. Management/general are administrative expenses including general operating costs of running the organization, but not directly involved in performing activities to further the entity's mission. Finally fund raising are the costs associated with soliciting the donations that support the entity. 

 If the entity being audited is not bound by the VHWO accounting guidance and terminology, it should follow its normal reporting requirements by including the identified fund raising costs under an appropriate label. If fund raising is not required to be identified as a separate line item on the activities statement, it may be included under an appropriate caption. However, all disclosure requirements outlined by the SOP apply regardless of where fund raising costs are reported. 

 For purposes of this SOP, a joint cost is "any cost associated with a joint activity that cannot be identified with a particular component of the activity." For example, the postage and other related costs associated with a mailing of educational and fund raising material would be considered joint costs. A joint activity is an activity that serves more than one goal. The SOP provides criteria that, if met, would allow for the allocation of the joint costs of a joint activity between fund raising and another expense category. 

 Any activity that contains a request for contribution is considered fund raising. If this activity is coupled with another activity that might be classified under another cost heading, such as program or management, it must satisfy specific criteria before its costs can be considered anything other than fund raising. The basic premise of the SOP is that if a joint activity does not meet the specified criteria, it will be charged entirely to fund raising. To be eligible for joint cost allocation the joint activity must meet all of the criteria of purpose, audience, and content. 

 Purpose 

 To meet the purpose test, the activity, be it direct mailing, telephone contact, or public lecture, must call on its audience to perform a specific action that will help the entity accomplish its mission. Just educating the audience on the causes, needs, and concerns of the entity does not satisfy the purpose criteria. The specific action called for must go beyond education. For example, providing education on the needs and benefits of recycling does not call for a specific action. Coupling this education with notice of targeted dates and named locations for dropping off recyclable goods adds the specific action needed to satisfy the purpose criteria. Again this example if conducted by itself would meet the definition of program cost. If a solicitation of funds is attached, then joint costs (postage and printing costs) of the activity may be allocated between program cost and fund raising. 

 It is important that the call for action meet the entity's mission. A request for donation does not qualify as an acceptable specific action. The reason the entity is engaging in this activity will also help determine whether the joint costs can be allocated. Some factors that may help determine the reason behind the activity are as follows: 

 1. Compensation 

 2. Similar programs 

 3. Measurement of results 

 As in other areas of accounting, substance takes precedence over form. The SOP presupposes that if the individual or company designing the brochure, or providing the information that calls for specific action is compensated for their efforts based upon the level of contributions raised from this specific solicitation activity, then the activity's focus is fund raising and the costs should all go to fund raising. However, as long as the employee's compensation or performance evaluation is based on specific outcomes related to the activity (increased numbers of families recycling goods), then the purpose criterion is assumed to be met. 

 The purpose criterion may also be met if the entity carries on similar activities using the same medium and the same scale as the current activity, but minus the request for donations. Arguments can be made that a different medium or dissimilar scale may still satisfy the purpose criterion. The burden rests with the entity to provide evidence that would support its claim before it would be permitted to allocate joint costs. This is an area where auditors can help their clients develop procedures that will allow them to document why they engage in the activities they do. 

 The qualifications of the individuals performing the activity should also be considered because they help support the entity's reason for engaging in this activity. It may be presumed that if an entity hires individuals with little knowledge of the need for specific action or the benefits to be derived from performing this activity, then it may be presumed that its focus is on fund raising. If however, knowledgeable individuals volunteer or perform this activity because they believe in its benefit, a case could be made for the purpose criterion being met. 

 Tangible evidence that supports why the activity is being performed should be considered in support of allocation determinations. This evidence includes the entity's written mission statement, board and committee minutes, previously issued donor restrictions, and any other formal and informal written plans or correspondence that might support the reason the activity was conducted. These are areas that auditors can counsel their clients on the benefits of creating and maintaining these records as part of their daily activities. Once created, they can serve to aid the auditors' determination as to whether allocation is called for. Each activity performed by the entity should have documentation detailing what it hopes to accomplish and how this accomplishment will further its mission. If this practice is adopted, then those activities that include fund raising activities will automatically develop the necessary documentation to make a cost determination. By not separating those activities that involve donor solicitations from other activities, the organization will also develop the practice of identifying its immediate goals and expectations. This action will also force managers to specify expected outcomes of all activities. 

 Audience 

 The audience of the activity should be selected because they have the ability to help the entity meet its goals, or it is reasonable to presume that members have need of the information being disseminated to meet those goals. The audience should be selected because its members have the most likelihood to benefit from the specific action called for. If the audience was selected because of their prior history of giving or for their likelihood of contributing, then it is presumed that increasing contributions is the important outcome. In such an instance, all costs could be considered fund raising unless one of the following situations is met. 

 1. It is reasonable to expect this audience to make use of the specific action called for by the program. 

 2. The audience has the ability to take specific action to help the organization meet its programs goals. 

 3. The entity is required to direct the management and general part of the joint activity to the particular audience (i.e. providing them with an accounting of how previously donated funds were used). 

 Again the burden is placed with the entity to document what audience is being targeted and why. Auditors can again help formalize the procedure that will permit the necessary information to be accumulated. 

 Content 

 Finally, if the criteria of purpose and audience have been met, the final criteria of content must be satisfied. To be considered part of a cost that can be allocable, the joint activity must call for specific action by the recipient. The medium used should explain the need for and benefits of specific action, as well as identify that specific action that the audience should take to meet these needs and thus accomplish the goals of the entity The specific action should be one that helps accomplish the entity's mission for it to have costs allocated to program costs. To be allocated to management and general, the joint activity should fulfill one or more of the entity's general administrative responsibilities. Specifically, information that identifies and describes the organization, its causes, conditions, needs, or concerns is considered find raising. 

 Incidental Activities 

 Some activities are incidental to the major function being performed. These costs need not be identified or allocated away from the primary function being served. For example, a statement that "contributions will be gratefully accepted" found at the bottom of a program agenda would be considered an incidental cost. Determining whether a cost is incidental involves use of judgment. Auditors may be able to help their clients develop guidelines to help them make determinations in this area. 

 Allocation Methods 

 SOP 98-2 does not prescribe a specific method of allocation, but suggests that any method that is rational and equitable may be used. Some allocation methods commonly used are 1 ) physical units (lines of print, media time), 2) relative direct cost and standalone joint cost allocation. Again, this is an area where auditors have the necessary background to help their clients determine which allocation methods to consider and to then document which method will be used and the rationale for its use. 

 Exchange Goods or Services 

 Should an activity include the sale of a good or service at a price above its market value, the exchange value of that component would be exempted from inclusion as part of fund raising. 

 Disclosure 

 Any entity that allocates joint costs should disclose 1 ) the types of activities for which joint costs were incurred, 2) a statement that such costs have been allocated and, 3) the total amount allocated to each functional expense category. 

 The SOP is effective for the financial statements of relevant organizations for years beginning after December 15, 1998. If comparative statements are presented, retroactive application is permitted but not required. 

 Conclusion 

 Understanding the implications of SOP 982 offers the auditor many ways in which s/he can assist those clients that solicit donations to properly record and report their fund raising activities. Knowing in advance the criteria and the means needed to support whether a joint activity has occurred, as opposed to an activity with an incidental solicitation for funds attached, will help eliminate year-end work. Further, having the necessary documentation on hand to determine whether the joint costs of joint activity qualify to be allocated between the two cost categories help auditors address documentation needs of their clients. If the entity does not currently have a mission statement, or if it does not maintain minutes of board and committee meetings, then the auditor can emphasize their importance using this SOP as support. Finally, the auditor can develop an internal document that requires the entity to determine and document its activities and the rationale for engaging in these activities. This will serve the purpose of identifying potential fund raising costs, and it will also help management formalize the goals and expectations associated with specific activities. .o 

 Sandra Pelfrey has an MBA with a concentration in Finance from Wright State University in Fairborn, Ohio. She has been a CPA since 1971. Ms. Pelfrey is an Associate Professor of Accounting at Oakland University in Rochester, MI teaching Managerial Accounting, Intermediate Accounting 1 and 11 and Government/Non-Profit Accounting. Before beginning her career as a college professor, she was an auditor with Ernst e'r Young for four years and the controller of a 700-bed hospital located in the midwest. 

 References: 

 1. Crossen, Cynthia, "Imperfect Pitch Organized Charities Pass Off Mailing Costs as Public Education" The Wall Street Journal. Vol CCXVI No. 84. October 29, 1990. Page 1 

Document npac000020010808dw5100010


 BAAN IN DUTCH.(Statistical Data Included) 

 ANDREW OSTERLAND 
3,560 words
1 May 2000
CFO, The Magazine for Senior Financial Executives
CFOE
68
ISSN: 8756-7113; Volume 16; Issue 6
English
 Copyright 2000 Information Access Company. All rights reserved. COPYRIGHT 2000 CFO Publishing Corp. 

 WITH ITS FIFTH CFO IN FOUR YEARS AND SIX STRAIGHT QUARTERS IN THE RED, THE ERP VENDOR IS STRUGGLING TO STAY AFLOAT. 

 THE YEAR 2000 DAWNED with surprisingly benign impact on the computer networks of businesses around the world. But for Baan Co., the world's fifth-largest supplier of enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems, the new millennium is off to a dismal start. On January 4, the Barneveld, Netherlands- and Herndon, Virginia-based software maker announced that it expected to lose $236 million in fourth-quarter 1999--more than half the loss a restructuring charge due to the closing of 14 offices and a 4 percent reduction in the workforce. It was Baan's sixth consecutive quarterly loss, and it virtually wiped out shareholders' equity in the company. 

 But even all this may not have been the worst news from Barneveld that day. Baan also announced that CEO Mary Coleman--the company's greatest asset, in the eyes of the analyst community--was resigning, just seven months after taking office. With her Silicon Valley roots; Coleman was seen as Baan's best chance to survive in a market being RIGHTING THE SHIP: transformed by the Internet. "Coleman was keeping the company afloat," says Rod Johnson, research director at AMR Research Inc., in Boston. "When she left, people got spooked." 

 And not just investors who drove the stock down 30 percent on the news. One week after Coleman hit the road, CFO James Mooney, whom Coleman had recruited from IBM in March 1999, left the company for greener pastures--namely, the corner office at TradeOut.com, a B2B Web business. (Coleman eventually landed as a managing director of operations at Internet Capital Group, a Wayne, Pennsylvania-based Internet incubator.) 

 The latest quarterly loss and management exodus (there have been four CEOs and five CFOs in the past four years) suggest that Baan is not yet out of a tailspin that began two years ago. At about $5, its stock is down 90 percent from a peak of $54 in April 1998, and now trades for a dollar less than its initial public offering price five years ago. Meanwhile, Baan's customers, which have automated their mission-critical operations with the vendor's software, have had their confidence badly shaken (see "Nervous Customers," page 78). 

 "Our prime concern is to regain the confidence of the financial community and our customers," declares CFO Robert Ruijter, who was hired in February by interim CEO Pierre Everaert. Ruijter previously spent seven years with Royal Philips Electronics NV as group treasurer and later CFO of the company's lighting division. With the giant Dutch manufacturer undergoing a massive restructuring over the past five years, Ruijter has had plenty of experience managing in tough situations. He knows only one thing can restore Baan's battered image: "We need to become profitable soon." 

 How did one of Europe's most promising tech companies fall so far, so fast? 

 IT STARTED WITH ACCOUNTING 

 Begin with the Baan brothers, Jan and Paul, who founded the business as a financial consulting firm in 1978. In the 1980s, Jan, the techie of the two, transformed Baan into a supplier of business management software based on the Unix operating system. With the explosive growth of the Unix platform, Baan too thrived, introducing its first ERP system in 1990, which automated and integrated various back-office operations of manufacturing companies. Baan's European client list grew rapidly. 

 The company also signed up several high-profile North American customers, such as Boeing Co. and Northern Telecom (now Nortel Networks), in 1994. Between 1993 and 1997, annual revenues grew by an average of more than 80 percent, and the company was emerging as a top competitor to market leader SAP AG in the manufacturing segment of the ERP market. From its IPO price of $5 in May 1995, Baan's stock rose to more than $50 by early 1998. That's when the trouble began. 

 Specifically, it started with accounting. In 1997, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants changed the rules for recognizing revenue from the sale of software in its Statement of Position (SOP) 97-2, making it more difficult for companies to book sales up front for products and services to be delivered in the future. All the ERP vendors were affected; SAP, for example, was forced to defer $250 million more in revenues under the new accounting rules than it did when reporting in its native Germany. The three major U.S. vendors, Oracle, PeopleSoft, and J.D. Edwards, were also affected. But no company suffered more from SOP 97-2 than Baan. 

 In part, that was because of the company's practice of leasing software to companies. The contracts were typically multiyear, and the company would recognize up front the revenue from the expected life of the lease. Baan was forced to defer $43 million of such revenue in the first quarter of 1998, causing net income to drop to $2 million from $13 million. 

 CONFUSING RELATIONSHIPS 

 EVEN MORE damaging to Baan's credibility was the spotlight cast on its confusing relationships with distributors and resellers, many of which were private companies owned by the Baan brothers. At the end of 1997, Baan adopted an indirect sales strategy to better address the small-to-midsized corporate market. It started using resellers for those customers, selling directly only to companies with more than $300 million in sales. 

 To manage the channel, Jan and Paul Baan established Baan Midmarket Solutions, which provided sales support and training for the resellers. The brothers also established a large reseller, Baan Business Systems, on their own. Both companies were controlled by the brothers' holding company, Baan Investments. Although the two had earlier transferred their 39 percent stake in the public company to a charitable foundation, they retained the voting rights of the stock, and the non-arm's-length relationship between the public and private entities put a scare in the market. 

 Not only was Baan unloading significant sales costs on the private ventures, whose books were closed to public scrutiny, the ventures were also buying large amounts of software from Baan. Of the $113 million in sales to midmarket customers reported in 1997, at least half were to companies owned by the Baan brothers. And given the large amounts of software in inventory at those companies, there was at least the appearance that Baan's phenomenal sales growth may have been helped by stuffing the distribution channel. The lack of transparency was enough to scare off such investors as Putnam Investments, which once owned a 9.4 percent stake in Baan. Putnam unloaded its entire position because of the situation. 

 In July 1998, Jan Baan stepped down as CEO and left the management board. The brothers also changed the name of their holding company to Vanenburg Ventures in an attempt to distance themselves from the public company. But the damage to the company's credibility was done. 

 BOOM AND BUST 

 INVESTORS, already uneasy about Baan, panicked when the company issued a profit warning October 12, 1998. Baan's stock plunged from 18 to 11. A class-action shareholder lawsuit was filed, alleging that the company issued "materially false and misleading financial statements" and employed "fraudulent accounting methods." 

 The problem was falling demand. Like all the ERP vendors, Baan was a major beneficiary of the impending millennial date change, as thousands of companies chose to replace their legacy software systems with Y2K-compliant ERP systems. But because such systems frequently require lengthy, difficult implementations, most companies bought their new systems by third-quarter 1998, in order to install them by the January 1, 2000, deadline. On cue, new-license revenues for all the ERP vendors plummeted in fourth-quarter 1998, and Baan shifted into survival mode. It sold off 10 service and support subsidiaries, closed or consolidated 50 offices, and cut 20 percent of its workforce in the fourth quarter of 1998. Along with the $200 million restructuring charge, the company also wrote off $56 million of existing inventory in the indirect channel, bringing the total loss for the quarter to $295 million. 

 As expected, the ERP market remained in the doldrums for most of 1999. Gartner Group Inc., a technology advisory firm in Stamford, Connecticut, estimates that new purchases of ERP licenses dropped by 70 percent last year. Accordingly, Baan's total revenues for 1999 were $635 million, down 14 percent from 1998. 

 Now that Y2K has passed, will demand for ERP systems pick up? There are some positive signs. Baan's license revenue rose by 92 percent in the fourth quarter, albeit off a small base in 1998 that also reflected inventory write-downs. Other vendors are also landing more orders. Many analysts believe, however, that the ERP market will never return to the heady growth rates of 1997 and the first half of 1998. 

 The reason is the Internet. While thousands of companies have installed ERP systems to automate back-office functions like accounting, production scheduling, and human resources, they are now venturing onto the Web to pursue E-commerce opportunities. For that, they want Web-enabled software that handles their interactions with customers and suppliers over the Internet. The stars in this market are companies such as Siebel Systems, which sells customer relationship management (CRM) systems; 12, which sells supply-chain management software; and Oracle, which is the acknowledged leader among ERP vendors in developing Internet-based applications. 

 Baan, too, is scrambling to recast itself as a Web-friendly supplier. Before she left, Mary Coleman shifted Baan's research-and-development budget significantly toward E-commerce technologies, and the company is now marketing several applications to handle procurement, sales, configuration, and fulfillment over the Web. 

 THE SIN BIN 

 IN THE WAKE of Coleman's and Mooney's departures, CEO Everaert and CFO Ruijter have their hands full. They have to fix a battered balance sheet and determine whether Baan has a future as an independent company. 

 Everaert has publicly stated he is open to offers for the company. And Jan Baan has suggested that Baan is an attractive opportunity for American companies. So far, Lazard Freres, hired in February to investigate alternatives, has come up with nothing. 

 Everaert and Ruijter's more immediate concern, however, has been raising equity capital. Last year's $289 million loss left Baan with just $9 million in shareholder's equity. And with the company expected to lose money for several more quarters, it is one small step from the "sin bin"--Amsterdam Stock Exchange-listed companies running a shareholder deficit. (Never mind that most of the dot-coms on Nasdaq, where Baan is also listed, would qualify for Amsterdam's sin bin.) Ninety percent of trading volume in Baan shares occurs in Amsterdam, and the Dutch company is determined to avoid the indignity of being dropped from the blue-chip AEX index. "We need to get this nonproductive issue off the table," says Ruijter. "I would rather spend my time on issues our customers are concerned with." 

 The new management team's first move may be the start of what some analysts think will be the unraveling of Baan's acquisition strategy of the past five years. In March, Everaert sold Coda Financials, an accounting software vendor Baan purchased in May 1998. The $49.3 million that System Software Associates paid for Coda resulted in a $30 million gain for Baan. "Coda buys them another quarter," says Ruurt van der Torre, formerly an analyst with ABN Amro. But just a quarter: "Either they have to raise more money, or they'll have to do more [asset] disposals." 

 Everaert and Ruijter, who worked together at Philips Electronics, are doing both. In February, they negotiated the conversion of $40 million in convertible debt to stock at a price of $6.25 per share rather than the original $22 price in the bond covenant. They also sold Baan's $40 million stake in Meta4, a European human resources management vendor, which resulted in another $20 million gain. 

 Still, with the company currently losing money at a rate of more than $25 million per quarter, $90 million won't keep Baan out of the sin bin for long, particularly if the ERP market doesn't pick up dramatically this year. To gain more breathing room, Baan recently cut a deal with Bear Stearns that allows it to sell as much as 150 million euros' worth of common stock to the New York investment house over the next 18 months, at market prices. In return, Bear Stearns gets to immediately buy 1.5 million new shares from Baan for the piddling sum of 90,000 guilders (around $39,000), or about 38 cents per share. 

 BREAKING UP 

 STILL, STRONGER ACTIONS--the selling off of software assets, or even a buyout of the entire company--may be necessary. Analysts say that CAPS Logistics, a decision-optimization software company that Baan bought in the fall of 1998, is a likely candidate for sale. Others suggest that Baan may have to part with its crown jewel, Aurum Software, the CRM firm that Mary Coleman ran before Baan bought it in 1997. Aurum is growing far faster than Baan's core ERP business, and by itself is worth more than the whole of Baan, says AMR'S Johnson. 

 In an attempt to avoid an outright sale of Aurum, Baan announced on March 29 that it will set the company up as a separate subsidiary and seek investment from venture capitalists. Eventually, Aurum could be spun off as a separate company with its own listing--not on the Amsterdam exchange. Given that analysts estimate the company is worth close to $1 billion, the remaining stake in Aurum would help shore up Baan's dwindling equity position. 

 In the meantime, Everaert and Ruijter have to decide what to do with the rest of Baan's assets. Unlike SAP, which developed its suite of ERP applications in house, Baan filled out its product line by buying companies. In 1996, the company acquired Berclain and Antalys, which produce manufacturing scheduling and pricing management applications. The following year, Aurum and Beologic provided sales force automation technology, and in 1998 Coda Financials and CAPS Logistics rounded out one of the broadest range of offerings in the industry. "Baan had great vision in technology and products," says van der Torre. 

 The problem, as any CIO can attest, is that independently developed software applications are difficult to integrate with one another. Furthermore, most of the acquired companies maintained their own sales and marketing organizations, and Baan has had little success selling new products to their client bases. "Baan became a holding company rather than a synergized ERP company," says Byron Miller, vice president of Giga Information Group. "Information transfer [between the companies] was at a minimum, and most of the pieces have floundered." 

 The result being that Ruijter may have to overhaul Baan's far-flung organization and possibly take further restructuring charges down the road. "In many ways, I find Baan more complex with 5,000 people than Philips was with 50,000 people," admits Ruijter. "There are a lot of confused responsibilities in the company. We need to organize our processes and establish business controls." 

 Ironically, the company finally launched its first fully integrated enterprise application suite, Baan V, at the end of last year, and is now testing it with clients. What's more, several of Baan's Web-based offerings, notably a collaboration software tool, are getting good reviews from customers. 

 "The sad thing is the products have never been healthier," says AMR's Johnson. The question is, will Ruijter and a new CEO have the chance to market them? 

 LIKELY SUITORS 

 A BUYOUT FROM a company like Microsoft or IBM would go a long way to repairing Baan's tarnished brand name. Both companies have been mentioned as possible suitors, but most analysts say that's wishful thinking. Microsoft and IBM make money collaborating with all the ERP vendors, and they are not likely to risk upsetting competitors by aligning themselves with one company--no matter how cheap it is. 

 The other ERP vendors are also unlikely buyers. Given the lack of synergies between separately designed software systems as complex as ERP, Baan would have to be operated as a stand-alone entity Perhaps the most logical buyer would be one of the CRM or E-commerce companies whose market caps now dwarf Baan's. With an installed base of about 5,000 companies, Baan would offer significant access to new customers for, say, a Siebel Systems or i2. And if it could perfect the integration of its applications, a combined CRM/ERP company could offer a true end-to-end enterprise solution. 

 A nice idea. But with the company expected to lose another 9 cents per share in the March quarter, Everaert and Ruijter can put such strategic visions out of their minds. Until they demonstrate that Baan is financially viable, they aren't likely to find any interested buyers. Instead, the management team will have to focus on cutting costs and paring down the company to a profitable size. "Baan recruited me because I'm not high-tech," says Ruijter. "I'm a down-to-earth manager, and that may be what Baan needs most at this point." Certainly customers hope so. 

 ANDREW OSTERLAND S A SENIOR EDITOR AT CFO. 


                              SOFTWARE ASSETS
                 BANN MAY UNLOAD SOME OF THE COMPANIES IT
                      BOUGHT OVER THE PAST FEW YEARS.
Company             Date Acquired Description
Berclain            5/96          Software for manufacturing scheduling
Antalys             11/96         Pricing management
Aurum               8/97          Sales force automation
Matrix              11/97         European sales automation
Beologic            11/97         Interactive selling and sales
automation
Hiscom              5/98          Hospital management systems
Coda Financials [*] 5/98          Financial accounting
CAPS Logistics      9/98          Supply-chain and logistics planning
(*.)Coda was sold in February 2000.
Sources: Company data; CS FirstBoston
1998 Q3  (39)
     Q4 (293)
1999
     Q1  (19)
     Q2   (9)
     Q3  (25)
     Q4 (236)



NERVOUS CUSTOMERS



Investors weren't the only ones who were dismayed by the sudden
management exodus at Baan Co. last January. The software company's
customers were just as shocked by the news.



Michael May, vice president of information technology at Teknion
Furniture Systems Ltd., a Toronto-based furniture maker, was already
anxious about the string of losses and bad press Baan had suffered over
the past two years. And like many industry analysts, May saw former CEO
Mary Coleman as a savior for the troubled soft ware supplier. "She had a
clear vision of where the company needed to go," says May, who has been
implementing Baan ERP applications at $630 million Teknion since 1993.
"If I were chairman [of Baan], I would have written a check for whatever
it took to keep her."



Alas, Coleman is gone, and so is ex-CFO James Mooney. And corporate IT
managers like May, who rely on the support and continued product
innovation of Baan for their mission-critical business applications,
face the unsettling prospect that Baan may never recover its financial
footing.



The products aren't the problem. May is perfectly happy with the
performance of his ERP system, and is currently in the midst of
deploying Baan's Web-based applications for processing customer orders
and collaborating with vendors. Likewise Boeing Co., Baan's largest and
most important customer, announced in March that it would upgrade 19
work sites with Baan V, the company's latest integrated ERP suite.
"We're pleased with our product, and we're not looking to change
vendors," says Boeing spokesman Bob Jorgensen. Boeing was a flagship
North American customer when it chose Baan as its ERP supplier in 1994.
The aerospace giant is about 60 percent through its implementation of
the software, which will ultimately be installed in 27 major sites in
commercial aircraft plants, with up to 20,000 employees using the
system.



"One of our biggest customers continues to have confidence in us,"
says Baan CFO Robert Ruijter. "They're upgrading because they see
further advantage to it." Analysts also surmise that Boeing may have
gotten a sweet deal from Baan on the upgrade. Regardless, the vote of
confidence suggests that if Ruijter can stabilize Baan financially, the
company can sell new Web-based products and ERP upgrades to existing
users.



Indeed, the company's custom base of approximately 6,000 is its most
valuable asset. Maintenance and service contracts with those customers
currently account for about 60 percent of Baan's revenues. They are also
the most likely buyers of new products. If customers start defecting to
other vendors, Baan's days as a going concern are numbered.



Keeping the existing customer base happy is one thing. But attracting
new customers will be a far more difficult task for Baan. If the company
continues to lose money, it's only a matter of time before service and
support levels deteriorate. And without profits, the company's
research-and-development budget will also soon suffer. Either prospect
is enough to scare away potential new buyers. "Implementing ERP systems
is a 10-to-15-year relationship," says AMR Research analyst Rod Johnson.
"If you're worried that a software supplier is going to be dismantled,
there is reason to be cautious."


FULL TEXT

Document cfoe000020010804dw510004i

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))   Date05/01/2000 to 05/31/2000   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectCorporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found79   Timestamp27 March 2018 10:03  
 Page 2 of 3     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

