 
•	  Airborne Freight 3rd Quarter Loss 11 Cents A Share Vs Net 44 Cents 
•	  UPDATE 1-Airborne Q3 loss falls below forecast. 
•	  PacifiCare explains cost hikes to Henderson seniors as CEO resigns 
•	  breakingviews.com: Bookham's Success Looks Vulnerable To Price Squeeze --- Nortel's Slowing Sales Signal Spending Is Unsustainable 
•	  Hercules' 3rd-Quarter Operating Earnings in Line with Reduced Forecast 
•	  INTERVIEW:Psion CEO Sees Fiscal Year Pft Much Less Than Consensus 
•	  Paris CAC ends down as tech jitters linger, EADS up. 
•	  UPDATE 4-Pilkington H1 profits boost ailing shares. 
•	  Norfolk Southern Posts Lackluster Net For Latest Quarter 
•	  Fiat Results Set To Disappoint After Recent Pft Warning 
•	  Shop for Shopko at a discount. 
•	 Newell Rubbermaid Issues  Profit Warning
•	 Newell Rubbermaid Issues  Profit Warning  And Reports Lackluster 3rd-Quarter Net
•	  DuPont Repurchased 4.5 Million Shares For About $200 Million In 3rd Quarter 
•	 Hopes of US bidder put life in Invensys; MARKET REPORT  
•	  Commodity Companies Profit Despite Rash of Warnings.(Brief Article) 
•	  Pressure Grows on Sommer to Help Share Price --- Deutsche Telekom CEO Faces Countdown for VoiceStream Deal 
•	  UPDATE 1-Xerox Q3 EPS in line, turnaround outlined. 
•	  US Corp Bonds-Xerox edges up, Lucent firms after drop. 
•	  Xerox Q3 EPS in line, turnaround outlined. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Xerox Q3 EPS in line, turnaround outlined. 
•	  Goodyear Posts Wider-Than-Expected Loss, Hurt By High Costs, Price Pressures 
•	  Lear's Profit Drops 1.8% in Third Quarter, Topping Diminished Forecast 
•	  EARNINGS ROUNDUP SBC Profit Flat; Internet, Marketing Expenses Cited 
•	  UPDATE 2-RadioShack third-quarter profit up but shares fall. 
•	  UPDATE 3-RadioShack third-quarter profit up, shares rebound. 
•	  Ericsson rebounds but brokers downgrade. 
•	  Ericsson slips in line with U.S. selling. 
•	  Charter tumbles 44 pct after double blow. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Int'l Flavors Q3 declines, to take Q4 charge. 
•	  Int'l Flavors Q3 earnings falls, to take Q4 charge. 
•	 Profit warning  from Union Carbide.
•	  Lucent Ousts Chief Executive, Issues Another Warning 
•	  MARKET TALK: 'Cleanest Deal You'll Ever See,' Welch Says 
•	  MARKET TALK: Rate Hikes Hurting Profits, But Not Inflation 
•	  MARKET TALK: Battipaglia Still Bullish, Worst Behind Us 
•	  MARKET TALK: More Softness In USD/JPY 
•	  MARKET TALK: Stocks Holding Moderate Gains 
•	  MARKET TALK: Lots Of Fund Outflows, But It May Come Back 
•	  MARKET TALK: Pace Of Cutbacks In Dot-Com Sector Quicken 
•	  MARKET TALK: Traders, PMs Like Stocks, But Wary Of Market 
•	 SOME EXECUTIVES BUYING DESPITE A PUNISHING MARKET
•	  National Semi Issues Proft Warning 
•	  TECH WEEK IN REVIEW: Computer Earnings Keep Waters Muddy 
•	  Hard to tell which Canadian firms must heed U.S. law: Check your companies: Fallout from rules could be increased market volatility 
•	  Amid Profit Worries, Investors Pay Closer Attention to Sales 
•	 UPDATE 4-Ericsson plunges on " profit warning ".
•	  Goodyear seen reporting break-even quarter or loss. 
•	  Ericsson sets new year lows after report. 
•	  Compaq Computer Says PC Inventory Levels Are Fine 
•	  28bn pounds merger sees aero firms take off. 
•	 Apple's Earnings Disappoint For the Fourth Quarter --- Fiscal-Year Target  Cut  as Firm Focuses on Sales
•	  Circuit City warns of losses in third quarter 
•	 Microsoft earnings climb 23% Slow program sales undercut forecast; tire recall hurts Ford
•	 UPDATE 2-Praxair shares tumble after Q4  profit warning .
•	  UPDATE 2 - Crown Cork Q3 profits drop 62 percent. 
•	 Xerox's credit ratings may be  cut  again, Moody's says.
•	 Ryder  profit  drops, issues  warning .
•	  UPDATE 1 - Crown Cork Q3 profits drop 62 percent. 
•	  Kodak Net Exceeds Estimate, but Firm Warns of Slowdown 
•	  Apple Posts Disappointing Quarter And Warns of Another to Come 
•	  United Technologies in Talks to Purchase Honeywell In $40.8 Billion Deal 
•	  Federal-Mogul 3rd Quarter Report A Letdown, Outlook Dim -Analysts 
•	  UPDATE 2-Ingersoll-Rand sees full year on low end of range. 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT - CSFB cuts RF Micro rating. 
•	  UPDATE 2-IBM off lows in Asia, Intel flat. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Michaels Stores shares plummet on warning. 
•	  Dow down but off lows, Nasdaq up as IBM, CPI still press. 
•	  Honeywell's 3rd-Quarter Earnings Fell 49% Amid Disappointing Sales 
•	  CNF Transportation's Net Income Fell 37%, Hurt By Weakness At Emery Unit 
•	  UPDATE 2-Caterpillar Q3 flat, sees rising revenues. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Caterpillar Q3 flat, sees rising revenues. 
•	  WSJ.COM WRAP: Caterpillar's 3rd Quarter Net Slips, Hurt By Dollar 
•	  Dana: Expects Less Production, Sees Work-Force Cuts 
•	  Dana's 3rd Quarter Results Disappointing And 4th Quarter May Be Worse 
•	  Software Maker Marimba Reports 3rd-Quarter Loss In Line With Warning 
•	  Rolls-Royce Shares Go Nowhere Despite A3XX Engine Contract 
•	  Citybus parent battles for London market credibility. 
•	 Newport shares plunge, despite strong outlook
•	 Tech stocks again have bad week; Investors now have to pick which of the hardest-hit will rebound
•	  Lucent cuts its growth forecast. 
•	  Friday Rally Brakes a Scary Slide on Wall Street 
•	  Tech Stock Surge Stems Week's Losses Wall Street: Nasdaq posts its second-biggest one-day gain, 7.87%, as strong profit reports and...
•	  Selling Frenzy Sends U.S. Markets Plunging --- Mideast Turmoil, Profit Worries Shake Investors 
•	  Lucent chairman McGinn faces pressure after warning. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Xerox dismisses Chap. 11 talk, stock at 9-yr low. 
•	  U.S. tech stocks roar back, post second-largest percent gain. 
•	  Xerox bonds smudged by rumors, downgrade. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Xerox dismisses Chap. 11 talk, stock at 9-yr low. 
•	  U.S. stocks barrel higher after fierce sell-off. 
•	  U.S. stocks seen rising at open, crucial data looms. 
•	 Home Depot Warns of a Profit Shortfall --- Stock Is Hammered by 29%, Home-Improvement Chain's Biggest One-Day  Decline
•	 Dow dives as events unnerve investors
•	 It's Tech Wreck II as nervy investors desert the ship
•	  MARKETS Wall Street Poised for Next Blow as Bad News Mounts Analysis: As resilient as the market has been throughout its decade-long run...
•	  Investors head for the exits at Imax 
•	  Companies: U.S. Companies 
•	  MORGAN Stanley's Barton Biggs recently wrote in a strategy piece that "Nasdaq is driving the world's economies". 
•	  U.S. stocks sharply lower as oil, earnings press. 
•	 UPDATE 1-Bausch & Lomb profits up slightly, to  cut  450 jobs.



 Airborne Freight 3rd Quarter Loss 11 Cents A Share Vs Net 44 Cents 

531 words
31 October 2000
21:08
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


Airborne Freight Corp. - Seattle
   3rd Quar Sept. 30:
                          2000               1999
Revenues              $804,529,000       $785,308,000
Net income              (5,509,000)        21,604,000
Avg shrs (diluted)      48,185,000         49,222,000
Shr earns (diluted)
  Net income                  (.11)               .44



Figures in parentheses are losses.


 Airborne Freight Corp. (ABF) warned in September that continued lack of growth in its core domestic business and escalating fuel costs would result in weak operating results in the third quarter and for the year to date. 

 Airborne Freight Corp.'s (ABF) third quarter loss of 11 cents fell short of analysts' expectations by 4 cents a share. Prior to the September profit warning, Wall Street had expected income of 28 cents a share. 

 The company, which operates under the name Airborne Express, continues to lose market share to FedEx Corp. (FDX) and United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS). 

 Domestic shipment volume fell 0.6% to 78.5 million in the third quarter, while international shipment volume fell on a 11.4% decline in international express shipments. 

 Airborne Freight said, "as we implement our growth improvement plan to boost shipment volume, we expect to recapture some business that we have lost to our competitors as well as obtain business from new market segments, such as the small business and infrequent shipper. At this time, maintaining customer confidence and service is a priority, and we have no plans to reduce service to cut costs for the short-term, at the expense of losing market share.' 

 Airborne Freight plans to pursue the small business market, expand third-party logistics capability and increase online offerings. 

 The company also plans to introduce a ground delivery service by April 2001, using existing facilities and assets. The capital investment, Airborne said, will be "very manageable." 

 Airborne doesn't expect the new initiatives to increase shipment volume "to any great extent" in the fourth quarter. The company expects spikes in volume associated with holiday shipping, targeting 60,000 to 65,000 shipments a day in the coming quarter. 

 Fourth quarter revenue is expected to improve "moderately" over the third quarter. The company hopes to reestablish positive operating earnings in the fourth quarter by managing costs. 

 A First Call/Thomson Financial survey of 12 analysts yielded a mean earnings estimate of 2 cents a diluted share for the fourth quarter. 

 In the 1999 fourth quarter, income was $17.3 million, or 35 cents a share, on a $4.6 million gain. Revenue was $805.9 million. 

 Full year 1999 income was $91.2 million, or $1.85, on revenue of $3.1 billion. 


   9 Months Sept. 30:
                         2000                1999
Revenues             2,428,020,000      2,333,656,000
Inc bef adj             26,148,000         73,870,000
Acctg adj               14,206,000               ....
Net income              40,354,000         73,870,000
Avg shrs (diluted)      48,851,000         49,303,000
Shr earns (basic)
  Inc bef adj                  .54               1.52
  Acctg adj                    .29               ....
  Net income                   .83               1.52
Shr earns (diluted)
  Inc bef adj                  .54               1.50
  Acctg adj                    .29               ....
  Net income                   .83               1.50



-Pamela Tate; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5388


Document dj00000020010805dwav045ko




 UPDATE 1-Airborne Q3 loss falls below forecast. 

363 words
31 October 2000
22:41
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SEATTLE, Oct 31 (Reuters) - Airborne Freight Corp. on Tuesday reported a third-quarter net loss of $5.5 million, or 11 cents a share, below revised forecasts, due to high fuel prices and the lack of growth in its core domestic business. 

 Back on Sept. 28, the Seattle-based shipping company operating under the name Airborne Express, warned it expected to report a loss ranging between 5 cents and 10 cents a share. 

 Financial anlaysts' consensus estimate fell to 7 cents a share following that warning, according to investment research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. Previously, analysts had forecast a quarterly profit of 28 cents a share. 

 In the third quarter a year ago, Airborne reported a profit of $21.6 million, or 44 cents per share. 

 The company said quarterly jet fuel prices jumped 51 percent to an average $1.03 per gallon from 68 cents per gallon in the same quarter last year. 

 "Fuel costs continue to escalate to historically high levels. The average price per gallon exceeded $1.13 in September, and continues to run even higher in October," Chief Financial Officer Lanny Michael said in a statement. 

 In October, Airborne increased its fuel surcharge for shipments from 3 percent to 4 percent. 

 Quarterly revenues grew 2.4 percent to $804.5 million vs. $785.3 million in the third quarter of 1999. Domestic revenues improved 1.4 percent vs. international revenue growth of 10.5 percent over last year's third quarter. 

 Airborne said international growth and other expansion efforts could not offset softness in its core domestic operations, and it expects fourth quarter sales to only "moderately improve" over the third quarter levels. 

 "At this time, maintaining customer confidence and service is a priority, and we have no plans to reduce service to cut costs for the short-term," said President Carl Donaway. 

 Back in September, Airborne also announced a series of growth initiatives including targeted marketing, pursuing the small business market, boosting product offerings and improving sales operations to help it improve performance. 

 Among the noteworthy initiatives are Airborne's plan to introduce ground delivery service in April 2001. 

Document lba0000020010822dwav02wxq


 PacifiCare explains cost hikes to Henderson seniors as CEO resigns 

 Pat King 
518 words
30 October 2000
Las Vegas Business Press
VEGA
7
Volume 17, Issue 43; ISSN: 1071-2186
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. Copyright Las Vegas Business Press Oct 30, 2000 

 PacifiCare has been taking it on the chin lately, but company executives said last week's town hall meeting with Clark County seniors was not about damage control. 

 Just two weeks ago, the managed care company, the No. 2 HMO in Nevada, issued a third-quarter profit warning and watched its stock value get cut in half. On Wednesday, CEO Robert O'Leary resigned after only three months on the job. 

 Investors reacted negatively. PacifiCare stock closed Wednesday down $1.56, or 13 percent, at $10.44, after setting a 52-week low of $ 10 earlier in the session. PacifiCare shares have fallen 85 percent since hitting a 52-week high of $72.31 in mid-June. 

 The word from PacifiCare executives to about 800 seniors at the Henderson Convention Center was that health care costs will keep trending upward. About 32,000 Clark County seniors are enrolled in PacifiCare's Secure Horizons program. 

 Costs will go up in part because of the 2 percent cap on Medicare reimbursements to HMOs under the government's Balanced Budget Act. 

 "Our revenue goes up 2 percent a year and our costs go up an average of 6 percent, so there's a squeeze," said John Rush, PacifiCare medical director. 

 Some HMOs have pulled out of senior coverage in some areas. In 1999, for example, Humana left Nevada, leaving 6,000 members behind. 

 Rush, though, said PacifiCare will stay in Nevada for now. 

 "Both Arizona and Nevada are profitable and we will be remaining here," Rush-said. 

 Bruce Huyghue, director of the Secure Horizons program, also expects medical expenses to keep climbing. 

 "In all likelihood, yes," Huyghue said. "Hopefully, Congress recognizes that the 2 percent cap is grossly unfair to our members." 

 For 2001, Secure Horizon members will see co-pays jump from $35 to $50 for emergency room visits, and they'll pay a $15 monthly fee for membership at 24Hour Fitness Clubs. In 2000, the fitness membership was covered. 

 Prescription drug co-pays will increase from $5 to $7 for generic drugs and from $10 to $15 for brand-name drugs. Urgent care co-pays are up from $10 in 2000 to $20 in 2001. 

 Cliff Hardesty, PacifiCare's director of pharmacy, said "the trend is that co-pays will increase." 

 Hardesty noted that proposed legislation to create a Medicare pharmacy benefit will probably take "two to three years to roll out," no matter who is elected president 

 With drug costs skyrocketing, Hardesty said a bill to reduce costs by allowing drug imports from outside the United States has passed the House and Senate. It is called the Reimportation Bill. 

 Nationwide, Maine was the first, and so far the only, state to allow importation of foreign drugs from Canada. 

 The Reimportation Bill could have a big impact. The drug Prilosec, for example, costs $120 in the U.S., $80 in Canada and $60 in Mexico. Prilosec is the most commonly used drug in the world, Hardesty said, and is used for ulcer treatment and other stomach disorders. 

Document vega000020010814dwau000a9




 breakingviews.com: Bookham's Success Looks Vulnerable To Price Squeeze --- Nortel's Slowing Sales Signal Spending Is Unsustainable 

 Edited by Hugo Dixon 
858 words
30 October 2000
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
24
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Bookham Technologies has enjoyed a fairy-tale existence as a quoted company. But, sadly for investors in the U.K. fiber-optic components group, this is one tale that may not have a happy ending. 

 Nortel Networks, the world's leading optical networker and source of three-fifths of Bookham's turnover, says its sales are slowing. Bulls say that Nortel's problems are a one-off: Some customers overstocked its products in the second quarter, so cut purchases in the third. Investors should treat such explanations with caution. 

 Nortel's troubles are another sign that spending on telecoms equipment is unsustainable. Carriers can no longer afford to increase investment by 30% annually. This is happening while optical network component makers are still increasing supply. The result is that prices are likely to come under pressure. Bookham looks particularly vulnerable to a squeeze. Its products have yet to gain widespread acceptance, so aren't selling in high volume. 

 This means the company isn't reaping the full benefits of its automated production process. It is this scaleable process alone that sets Bookham apart from its rivals. 

 The market for optical components will still grow phenomenally fast. And Bookham remains a potential bid target, because of its technology. However, with supply and demand moving into balance, there is less pressure on parts makers to buy capacity. Moreover, any bid for Bookham would surely be financed with shares, not cash. And optical stocks still look hideously overvalued. Bookham trades on a multiple of 110 times this year's forecast sales. At these levels, the shares should be avoided. 

 Terra/Lycos 

 The story of Terra Networks's share price provides a textbook example of market inefficiency. The Spanish Internet service provider has agreed to take over Lycos, the U.S. portal. For several months Lycos shares have been trading at a vast discount to their post-merger value as implied by Terra's market price. Because Telefonica still owns over 80% of Terra, hedge funds have found it difficult to borrow and sell short Terra shares in Madrid. Meanwhile, Terra's American Depositary Shares have fallen to a substantial discount to the Spanish price. Until the end of last week, when Terra shares fell, the mystery was why they had remained so firm. 

 The only answer is that anyone buying Terra stock in Madrid has been utterly clueless. Three innocent types present themselves: domestic retail investors, IBEX index trackers, and Spanish funds that are unable to invest abroad. No rational investor has touched the stock in ages. Friday's vote by Lycos shareholders to consummate the merger finally flushed out some sellers, and the shares lost nearly 10% of their value. When Lycos's American shareholders get to sell their Terra stock in Madrid, the shares are likely to slide further. 

 However, at some point the fall will be cushioned by the company's strong cash position and likely demand from index funds. After the merger, Terra will have a larger float and a more rational share price. The same cannot be said of other European ISPs. Like Terra today, hedge funds are finding it difficult to sell such stocks short. One day they too will fall to earth with a bump. 

 Psion 

 How much is Psion worth? Well, until recently, a handy formula was available for valuing the U.K. palmtop manufacturing and software group. One took the core computer hardware businesses, and put them on a fancy multiple of earnings. Anything left over was the implied value of Psion's stake in Symbian, a joint venture with mobile handset vendors to create an operating system for wireless devices, such as phones and palmtop computers. 

 This has now become harder. The main snag is that the core handheld computer business may be imploding. For this is the subtext to Psion's latest profit warning, which caused its shares to fall by nearly 30%. Psion is having to pay more for its components, which are in short supply. Big mobile handset vendors need the same components, and they have more clout. Psion is also being squeezed because it pays mainly dollars for its components, but sells primarily in euros. These problems both telegraph the same message to investors. Psion is too small to thrive as a handheld computer manufacturer. 

 This has a knock-on effect on the value of Psion's 28% stake in Symbian. After all, Psion handheld computers would have used the operating system. But it's probably not that decisive. The bigger question is how many smart mobile devices are sold using Symbian technology. This remains a matter of guesswork. But investors are increasingly worried about the take-up of wireless Internet. With little else to support them, Psion shares shouldn't be touched. 

 Mike Monnelly and Eddie Chancellor 

 --- 

 This column is produced by breakingviews.com, a London-based online financial service in which The Wall Street Journal Europe, a sister publication of this newspaper, owns a minority stake. For more, go to www.breakingviews.com

Document awsj000020010803dwau00d0e




 Hercules' 3rd-Quarter Operating Earnings in Line with Reduced Forecast 

292 words
27 October 2000
02:38
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WILMINGTON, Del. -- Chemicals company Hercules Inc. posted sharply lower third-quarter earnings from operations that were in line with the firm's profit warning last week. 

 Hercules (HPC) had net income of $75 million, or 70 cents a share, compared with $57 million, or 54 cents a share a year earlier. 

 The latest quarter included $106 million in one-time gains, a gain from forming the CP Kelco joint venture and restructuring costs. Excluding all special items, Hercules said it would have earned $14 million, or 13 cents a share, compared with $61 million, or 58 cents a share. The latest quarter also included an accounts-receivable provision of about seven cents a share. 

 Revenue fell 1.6% to $815 million. Excluding the divested nitrocellulose and agar businesses, revenue would have risen 0.1% to $814 million. 

 When the company issued its warning and announced its chairman, president and chief executive, Vince Corbo, resigned, Hercules said it should have third-quarter earnings of about 13 cents a share. At the time, the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of 21 cents a share. 

 Hercules said late Thursday that the third quarter's results were hurt by currency fluctuations and higher raw-material and energy costs. The company said the weak euro cut sales by $33 million. Excluding that impact, Hercules said revenue would have risen 5%. 

 Interim chairman and CEO Thomas L. Gossage, who retired in 1996, said Hercules' "priorities are clear -- restructure debt, focus on cash flow, then to determine and execute a strategic path forward." The company is evaluating its strategic alternatives. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwar01nq9




 INTERVIEW:Psion CEO Sees Fiscal Year Pft Much Less Than Consensus 

 By Elena Berton 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
460 words
27 October 2000
10:12
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)- Computer group Psion PLC (U.PON) will report full-year pretax profit "significantly less" than the analysts' consensus of GBP6.68m, Chief Executive Officer David Levin told Dow Jones Newswires Friday. 

 The information technology company said in a trading statement released earlier that costs related to its acquisition of Teklogix, continuing adverse foreign exchange variances and recent rises in component prices, had affected all divisions. 

 "Our biggest market is Europe. For the computers we build we buy the components abroad in U.S. dollars, and clearly the weakness of the euro is affecting our margin," Levin said. 

 The company had indicated it was expecting negative effects from forex movements in August when it released its half-year results, he added, but hadn't anticipated the continuing slide of the euro. 

 The rising cost of components has also affected Psion's operations, Levin said. 

 "We share part of our components with the mobile phone industry and, because of the rising demand, the pricing of some components in the last few weeks has gone up pretty quickly," Levin said. 

 "How long this will persist we don't know. But we would anticipate that during the first quarter some of these price rises will unwind." 

 Psion also blamed the profit decline on the slowdown of the higher-margin segment of its PC card modem business. 

 "We knew this market would be declining and the question was when it would really hit us," Levin said. "The market has remained better-than-expected for longer. Now it's finally happening." 

 Levin said the division, which is undergoing a restructuring, will focus on the development of Bluetooth products, whose volume shipments are expected in the second half of 2001. 

 "We are focusing our R&D resources on this area," Levin said. "Secondly, we have important customers such as Compaq and Dell, and we are structuring our business to support them most of all." 

 Levin said demand for handheld computers remains strong. 

 He reiterated that the profit warning is not affecting the Symbian joint venture, a software licensing company which Psion plans to float depending on volume products. 

 Analysts expect Symbian, whose shareholders include Nokia Corp. (NOK), Motorola Inc. (MOT), L.M. Ericsson Telephone Co. (ERICY) and Japan's Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. (MC), will make its stock market debut in the second half of 2001. 

 "Symbian is in good shape. It's very much on track," he said. 

 At 0746 GMT shares were down 157 pence, or 27.3%, at 418 pence. 

 Company Web site: http://www.psion.com

 -By Elena Berton, Dow Jones Newswires; 4-20-7842-9267; elena.berton@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010805dwar0571t




 Paris CAC ends down as tech jitters linger, EADS up. 

432 words
26 October 2000
16:50
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 PARIS, Oct 26 (Reuters) - The Paris bourse ended with a loss on Thursday when a stellar performance by European aerospace giant EADS failed to shake investors out of the gloom surrounding the last session's technology rout. 

 The benchmark CAC-40 index ended down 1.11 percent at 6,208.42 points. Losers outpaced decliners 23-16. 

 Traders said a 5.56-percent overnight slump in tech-laced Nasdaq after telecoms equipment giant Nortel reported slower sales had badly rattled investor nerves, hitting French peer Alcatel for a second straight day. 

 A fall in the euro to a new record low for a second straight day dealt a further blow to sentiment. 

 "Investors are not just ready yet to get back into the market. We need a strong signal on Nasdaq or for the CAC-40 to again test the 6,000 area before people really start buying," one trader said. 

 "That said, the market proved quite resilient to Nasdaq's woes in morning trade. We had positive news coming from EADS and the merger in the car equipment sector," he said. 

 With all eyes on Nasdaq, which failed to rebound from its hefty losses, the market largely ignored weaker-than-expected U.S. third-quarter employment cost data, which analysts said should soothe inflation fears. 

 Nasdaq was down more than two percent by the close of the French market as investors fled tech stocks, fearful of more bad news on the earnings front. 

 "The data are market-friendly but this goes to show the current mood of a market that has not yet finished digesting a flow of negative news," ETC analyst Jean-Francois Cauvet said. 

 Investors were also waiting for Friday's key U.S. third quarter gross domestic product data for more clues on inflation and interest rates. 

 European aerospace giant EADS dominated the day with gains of 8.97 percent after earlier surging to 23.90 euros, its highest level since its shares began trading in July. 

 EADS was boosted by a flurry of analyst upgrades following its first-half results. 

 Car equipment makers Faurecia and Sommer-Allibert shone with double-digit gains as investors cheered a merger deal that promised to boost profits and offered Sommer's shareholders an attractive premium. 

 Electrical equipment firm Schneider shed 4.87 percent after several analysts cut their ratings following disappointing nine-month sales. 

 Joining the loser board, bank Credit Lyonnais lost 3.30 percent on speculation that it had issued a profit warning. Credit Lyonnais denied issuing a profit warning. 

Document lba0000020010822dwaq03hkh




 UPDATE 4-Pilkington H1 profits boost ailing shares. 

 By Sudip Kar-Gupta 
527 words
26 October 2000
17:04
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Oct 26 (Reuters) - UK glassmaker Pilkington Plc helped ease concerns over its falling share price on Thursday, beating market forecasts with a 31 percent rise in first-half earnings. 

 Pre-tax profit before exceptional items rose to 102 million pounds ($147 million), above forecasts of around 96 million pounds, helped by improved glass prices and growth in its building and automotive units. 

 Pilkington, which supplied the glass for Berlin's Bundestag building, said it expected further growth in the second half of the year. 

 The upbeat outlook helped shares rise by 5.1 percent to close at 91-3/4 pence, valuing the group at around one billion pounds. It has outperformed the FTSE All Share Construction Index by 26 percent in the last six months. 

 Merrill Lynch analyst Mark Hake said he was raising his forecasts for full year pre-tax profits in the light of the results to 225 million pounds from a previous estimate of 215 million pounds. 

 Hake rates Pilkington a "buy" on a 12-month price target of 110p. 

 CALL FOR SHARE BUYBACK 

 But despite strong trading statements, Pilkington's management has been worried by the decline in its share price since mid-August, when it reached levels around 102p. 

 "I own so many (Pilkington) shares that it's quite frustrating, but I'm not planning to sell them," Pilkington Chief Executive Paolo Scaroni told Reuters in an interview. 

 Shares fell last month after U.S. rival PPG Industries Inc issued a profit warning, although some analysts said PPG's problems were mainly in its non-glass operations and it was therefore an inappropriate comparison for Pilkington. 

 Investment house UK Active Value, which owns just over five percent of Pilkington, said on Thursday it would put pressure on the firm and its other shareholders for a share buyback to boost investor returns. Pilkington has the authority to repurchase up to 10 percent of its shares. 

 However, Pilkington does not plan any such buyback for the present time, according to Scaroni who read out a statement by Pilkington Chairman Nigel Rudd. 

 "It is not our intention to use this authority at the present time but we will always examine any proposal designed to ensure that the share price more accurately reflects the improved position of the business," Rudd's statement said. 

 Pilkington has set up a series of other initiatives to enhance profit growth. 

 The company said it was taking over full ownership of its Polish float line, which Scaroni said would add between three and four million pounds in operating profit every year. 

 Pilkington's Cebrace unit, a joint venture with French rival Saint Gobain , is also setting up a fourth float glass plant in Brazil due to start operating by the end of 2002. 

 Pilkington is still considering setting up a new glass company in the United States with Visteon . Pilkington had originally signed a letter of intent with Visteon over the new company, and Scaroni said he hoped to conclude proceedings by the end of December. 

 Pilkington maintained its interim dividend at 1.75 pence per share. 

Document lba0000020010822dwaq03hjf




 Norfolk Southern Posts Lackluster Net For Latest Quarter 

 By Daniel Machalaba 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
513 words
26 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A8
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Norfolk Southern Corp. reported disappointing third-quarter net income, reflecting sharply higher fuel prices, softening freight demand and unusually mild weather in the Northeast that held down coal shipments for power generation. 

 The railroad holding company reported net income increased to $99 million, or 26 cents a diluted share, from $19 million, or five cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding items in the two periods, Norfolk Southern had earnings of 14 cents a diluted share in the third quarter, compared with 13 cents a year earlier. 

 In the year-earlier third quarter, the company was suffering from major freight disruptions and delivery snarls from its takeover of parts of the former Conrail system. Norfolk Southern said it cleared up those operating problems and is running relatively smoothly. But the company lately has seen some freight shipments stagnate or decline, while diesel-fuel prices increased 57% in the third quarter this year from a year earlier.  "They clearly geared for higher freight volume than the economy allowed them to achieve," said Scott Flower, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney Inc. "As a result, earnings were not as robust as investors or the company would have liked." 

 In 4 p.m. New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Norfolk Southern shares were unchanged at $12.69. Norfolk Southern beat a First Call/Thomson Financial analysts' consensus estimate of 13 cents a share by a penny. The consensus estimate was revised downward from 27 cents a share after Norfolk issued a profit warning Sept. 29. 

 Net income in the latest quarter included a gain of $46 million, or 12 cents a share, from sale of timber properties in September. Year-earlier net included the impact of a noncash charge of $31 million, or eight cents a share, for a special work-incentive plan for unionized employees to make themselves more available to resolve service problems. 

 Revenue increased 1% to $1.52 billion from $1.50 billion. 

 Norfolk Southern officials said "intermodal" shipments of freight in highway trailers or containers hauled on rail flat cars increased in the quarter, due to the opening of a large new hub near Harrisburg, Pa., as well as strong United Parcel Service and U.S. Postal Service shipments. Automotive and agricultural revenues were up, but metals and paper revenues declined. Chemicals revenue was flat in the quarter. 

 Hank Wolf, Norfolk Southern's vice chairman and chief financial officer, said the company is trying to produce more free cash flow and reduce outstanding debt. Debt levels, inflated by the Conrail purchase, peaked at more than $8 billion earlier in the year and are now about $7.7 billion. Mr. Wolf said that the company have positive cash flow this year because of the actions it is taking, including property sales. 

 David Goode, Norfolk's chairman, president and chief executive officer, said that now that the company has stabilized freight service on its expanded network, it is focusing on operating more efficiently and reducing costs. 

Document j000000020010807dwaq00s0w




 Fiat Results Set To Disappoint After Recent Pft Warning 

 By Amanda Kaiser 
592 words
26 October 2000
13:36
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 OF DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 

 MILAN -(Dow Jones)- After a profit warning last month, analysts are prepared for disappointment when Fiat SpA (FIA) releases its nine-month results Friday. 

 Market watchers are particularly pessimistic about the group's automotive and agricultural machinery units. In September, Fiat said full-year operating income will likely be negatively affected by rising oil prices, increasing European competition for Fiat Auto and poor U.S. sales of farm equipment at CNH Global NV (CNH). 

 "The market is not expecting much," said Chiara Tirloni, an analyst with UBS Warburg in Milan. 

 Other observers were just as negative. 

 "We see Fiat Auto even weaker than expected. That's the business that everybody's concentrating on," said Jim Wright, an analyst with Lehman Brothers. 

 Fiat's nine-month pretax profit is seen between EUR572 million and EUR900 million. That's a wide spread because it's unclear how much income from recent asset sales will be included in the figure. In the first nine months of 1999, Fiat posted a pretax profit of EUR319 million. 

 Operating profit is seen between EUR620 million and EUR700 million, compared with EUR195 million a year ago. That, too, isn't as stunning as it seems, considering operating profit in the first nine months of 1998 was EUR806 million. The plunge in profit last year stemmed from problems in the Brazilian market and the introduction of two new models. 

 Sales are seen up at between EUR41.8 billion and EUR42.97 billion, compared with EUR34.4 billion the year earlier. 

 Market watchers want to see improved profitability at the car unit, which accounts for around half of Fiat's revenues. 

 But that looks unlikely. In the light of disappointing results at the European operations of General Motors Corp. (GM) and Ford Motor Co. (F), some see Fiat Auto in the red for the third quarter. The car maker is thought to be making money on just a handful of the 25 models it manufactures. 

 Lehman's Wright said Fiat Auto's year-end operating margin is seen around 0.5%, very low when compared to other European car makers' margins of around 4% or 5%. UBS Warburg's Tirloni sees the auto division's full-year operating margin at around 0.2%. 

 Analysts are not expecting much in the way of cost synergies from industrial partner GM for this nine-month period. The first car to be built on a common platform is not seen for at least two and a half years. In March GM took a 20% stake in Fiat Auto, while Fiat in turn bought about 5.1% in the U.S. carmaker. 

 The outlook for CNH, the company formed by the merger of Case Corp. and Fiat's New Holland unit, is just as bleak. In July, it said it expected to post a third-quarter loss. 

 "We are pretty pessimistic after Volvo AB's (VOLVY) results," said Markus Pluemer, an analyst with WestLB Panmure in Duesseldorf. "There is a very bad situation in the U.S. for capital goods." 

 CNH may also be forced to reduce its product line. The company must dispose of some plants to satisfy conditions imposed by antitrust regulators for clearing the Case-New Holland merger. 

 Fiat's commercial vehicle unit Iveco is also seen putting in a disappointing quarter due to a decline in demand for trucks in Europe. 

 -By Amanda Kaiser, Dow Jones Newswires; 39 02 7601 5386; amanda.kaiser@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010805dwaq054pd


 Shop for Shopko at a discount. 

948 words
26 October 2000
Business and Finance
BUSFIN
English
(c) 2000 Business & Finance Magazine.

 Page 74 

 FEDERAL RESERVE chairman Dr Alan Greenspan has been at pains to engineer a soft landing for the US economy for some time now. A succession of incremental interest rates rises over the last 18 months have been designed to take the steam out of a rampant economy. The landing he has created, however, could not be bumpier for some of America's best know retailers. 

 Home improvement chain Home Depot's recent profit warning had predictable results for its share price. Coming on top of a litany of warnings from other retailers, the latest high profile casualty has also injured the valuations of all its peers. 

 The US retail sector has become a veritable no-go area for investors. Wal Mart, Gap and Kmart are all trading close to 52-week lows. And with the vital Christmas shopping period so close at hand, investors are running scared of retail stocks. 

 This is the macro background greeting Brian Bender. Who? Bender is the new chief financial officer at Shopko Stores - the regional discount retailer. He brings with him 24 years experience of working in the retail trade, including a stint at May Department Stores and he will have to bring it all to bear. 

 For the current situation at Shopko is pretty grim. Earlier this month, it announced that earnings in the third quarter would be somewhere between 2c and 7c - far removed from the 37c achieved in the comparable period in 1999. 

 The knock-on effect for the full-year sees a new forecast of earnings per share of between US $1.80 and US $2.05, compared to US $2.67 in 1999 and a deal lower than the average estimates of US $2.46. 

 As you may gather from the above figures, Shopko had run into difficulties before the third quarter. The corresponding period last year fell short of expectations, as did the first quarter in 2000. To miss one quarter is unfortunate, to miss two is downright careless, to miss three results in a new cfo. 

 Aside from working in the retail sector, Bender also brings with him experience of working on Wall Street. This will stand him in good stead as he attempts to re-build the burning bridges that separate Shopko from the investment community. 

 Shopko has been forced to trim its sails. It will cut costs by up to US $20m in the coming year and has set aside plans for capital expenditures of up to US $100m. Further revisions to earnings targets for 2001 and beyond have not yet been made - but they will be downwards. 

 The reasons why no forecasts are made at this juncture are found in the coming quarter. November, December and January are the most vital months in Shopko's calendar. This concluding quarter of the year will account for over 80% of earnings for the entire year. With a troubled macro environment, it would come as little surprise if Shopko and other retailers struggled to meet projections. 

 Shopko will very shortly present third quarter results. This should shed more light on what exactly we can expect in the coming months. But an element of uncertainty will hang over the company and others like it until the real picture emerges in the run-up to Christmas. 

 "Growing consumer debt levels and rising energy costs are just a few of the factors taking their toll on the consumer's capacity to spend in the retail sector," was the opinion of William Podany, chairman and chief executive of ShopKo at the time of the recent profit warning. 

 With a challenging Christmas period lying ahead, the risk is that there may be further bad news in the pipeline. Or at least this is the view taken by the market. This time last year, a share in Shopko would have cost you US $25. What a difference a year makes - at the beginning of this week, the share could be picked for just over US $6. 

 Stock markets tend to discount with the future in mind. Accordingly, Shopko is now working to a year-end (January 2001) price earnings multiple of just 3.47 and a p/e of just 2.84 in 2002. The current year forecast is based on it achieving eps of US $1.80 - the lower end of the revised expectations. A new forecast for 2002 has yet to be made. Analysts had predicted that it would achieve annual eps growth of over 15% over the next five years. Even allowing for present difficulties, the stock should still comfortably achieve annual double-digit growth over this period. 

 Suitably for a discount chain - it has almost 400 stores in the Mid-West and North West - its shares are now approaching bargain basement levels. On a net asset valuation alone, the shares are worth considerably more than the market is valuing them at. Our bet is that the market has already factored in a wobbly Christmas period. 

 The US economy is already half-way down the soft landing strip provided for it by Greenspan. The interest rate cycle is nearing its peak - possibly just one more rate rise of a quarter of point. Thereafter, the cycle should turn again, with possible interest rate cuts by next autumn. 

 It all seems a long way off. For the moment, the likes of Bender is focusing solely on getting through the Christmas period. Santa Claus may not arrive this year for the retailers, but for those who take a much longer term view of the world, a stock like Shopko picked up for around US $5 could yet prove to be a handsome gift. 

Document busfin0020010805dwaq0019q




 Media & Marketing 
 Newell Rubbermaid Issues  Profit Warning 

172 words
26 October 2000
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
10
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 FREEPORT, Illinois -- Newell Rubbermaid Inc. issued its second earnings warning in five weeks and reported a third-quarter net income that matched Wall Street's diminished expectations. 

 Third-quarter net was $123 million, or 46 cents a diluted share, compared with $72.7 million, or 26 cents a share, a year earlier. The consumer-products company said it is continuing to have a hard time passing along rising raw-materials costs. 

 Newell guided analysts to lower their already trimmed forecasts for Newell's 2000 earnings by 10 cents a share and to cut their outlook for next year by as much as 15 cents a share. 

 As a result of the warning, Barrington Research Associates Inc., a Chicago research firm, cut its investment rating on Newell to hold from long-term buy. 

 Newell's stock has fallen by more than half since its $5.1 billion acquisition of housewares maker Rubbermaid Inc. in early 1999. Efficiencies from the merger didn't materialize as expected. 

Document awsj000020010803dwaq00cvb




 Marketing & Media 
 Newell Rubbermaid Issues  Profit Warning  And Reports Lackluster 3rd-Quarter Net 

 By Scott Kilman 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
470 words
25 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
B8
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 FREEPORT, Ill. -- Newell Rubbermaid Inc. issued its second earnings warning in five weeks and reported a third-quarter net income that matched Wall Street's diminished expectations. 

 Third-quarter net was $123 million, or 46 cents a diluted share, compared with $72.7 million, or 26 cents a share, a year earlier. The consumer-products company said it is continuing to have a hard time passing along rising raw-materials costs. 

 Newell guided analysts to lower their already-trimmed forecasts for Newell's 2000 earnings by a dime a share and to cut their outlook for next year by as much as 15 cents a share. 

 As a result of the warning, Barrington Research Associates Inc., a Chicago research firm, cut its investment rating on Newell to hold from long-term buy. 

 At 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Newell shares fell $2.81, or 13%, to close at $19.25. 

 Newell's stock has fallen by more than half since its $5.1 billion acquisition of housewares maker Rubbermaid Inc. in early 1999. Efficiencies from the merger didn't materialize as expected, nor did sales grow as quickly as projected. 

 Newell warned in September that the weakened euro, among other things, would take some steam out of its third-quarter results, and yesterday it focused on the soaring price of the resin it uses to make plastic goods. 

 Analysts said retail chains, leery of a softening economy, are refusing to accept the higher prices that Newell wants to charge in order to cover the cost of resin. 

 Newell said its raw-materials costs jumped by $35 million from the year-earlier period. The higher resin costs largely offset the cost savings Newell said it realized from its Rubbermaid operations in the third quarter. 

 The recent quarter included an after-tax restructuring charge of $2.6 million for closing facilities and employee-severance costs. The year-earlier quarter included charges of $51.8 million related to the Rubbermaid acquisition. 

 Third-quarter sales climbed 4.8% to $1.69 billion from $1.61 billion in the similar year-earlier period. Newell said an unexpected slowdown in orders in October figured in its decision to issue the latest earnings warning. 

 For all of 2000, Newell told analysts to expect it to earn between $1.70 a share and $1.75 a share before restructuring charges, down from consensus estimates from First Call/Thomson Financial of $1.82 a share. 

 For all of 2001, Newell said it expects to earn between $1.85 a share and $1.95 a share, down from First Call/Thomson Financial estimates for it to earn $2.01 a share. 

Document j000000020010807dwap00rva




 DuPont Repurchased 4.5 Million Shares For About $200 Million In 3rd Quarter 

 By Christina Cheddar 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
802 words
25 October 2000
17:29
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Volatile oil and gas prices, a weakening euro, and a slowing economy have created enough uncertainty for DuPont Co. (DD) to shy away from giving earnings guidance for 2001. 

 "We are not prepared to give guidance at this time," company spokeswoman Ann Gualtieri said Wednesday. 

 DuPont's goal is to move toward a trend of delivering 10% sustainable earnings growth, Gualtieri said. 

 Earlier, DuPont reported third-quarter earnings from continuing operations before items fell 14% to $537 million, or 51 cents a diluted share, from $625 million, or 59 cents a share a year ago. 

 Segment sales, which include sales from joint ventures, rose 4% to $7.4 billion on a 2% sales volume increase. Excluding ventures, DuPont sales were up 3.7% to $6.87 billion from $6.62 billion a year ago. 

 DuPont's earnings met downwardly revised estimates by Wall Street analysts. Prior to a September profit warning from DuPont, analysts had expected DuPont's third-quarter earnings to be 7 cents a share higher than reported. 

 During the Wilmington, Del., chemical company's earnings conference call, the company detailed many conditions that are having an impact on its businesses segments. 

 Overall, DuPont's outlook for the remainder of the year assumes a slowing U.S. economy, lower pharmaceutical sales, and high oil and natural gas prices, which lead to increased raw material costs for its products. 

 If oil and natural gas prices remain high, DuPont expects the gross domestic product will increase between 2% to 2.5% in 2001, said Chief Financial Officer Gary Pfeiffer. 

 During the third quarter, DuPont repurchased $200 million of its stock, or 4.5 million shares, Gualtieri said. The company also has commitments through derivative instruments to purchase an additional 6.2 million shares. 

 Taking into consideration the stock repurchases and agreements to buy back shares, DuPont has completed 20% of the stock repurchase program it announced in the second quarter, Gualtieri said. The shares were repurchased for an average of $43.00 a share, she said. 

 According to the official, DuPont does not plan to complete the $2.5 billion buyback program within a specific timeframe. 

 DuPont shares were recently down 94 cents, or 2%, at $42.25 on volume of 2.4 million compared with average daily volume of 3.2 million. 

 DuPont Pharmaceuticals' sales, which were flat in the third quarter, will be hurt by a planned cutback in promotional activity, DuPont said. 

 In fact, sales at the unit could fall by about $100 million per quarter until mid-2001, and result in substantially lower after-tax operating income in the fourth quarter, DuPont said. 

 During the conference call, DuPont officials said the company is still evaluating future strategies for the pharmaceutical business, and does not have a deadline for the review. 

 "What we have told people," DuPont's Pfeiffer said, "is that this work is too important (to set a time frame)." 

 At DuPont's performance coatings & polymers segment, where third-quarter earnings rose 10%, the company is seeing a slowdown in auto-finishing sales in the U.S. market, but other parts of the unit are "fairly strong," spokeswoman Gualtieri said. 

 The company's specialty-fibers segment reported a 12% decline in the latest period from a year ago. Specialty-fibers operations have been negatively impacted by increased volumes of generic fibers that compete with DuPont's Lycra brand. 

 DuPont is using product differentiation as its key strategy to compete with generic forms of Lycra in the market, Gualtieri said. 

 During the third quarter, specialty-polymer earnings rose 5% as its Corian brand remained strong despite a modest slowdown in the building industry, the company said. The company's iTechnologies and fluoropolymers segments also showed growth, but sales were flat at its packaging and industrial-polymers operations. 

 Volumes were up in all geographic regions for DuPont's pigments and chemicals segment. The division reported an earnings increase of 4% on sales that grew 7%. Profits at the segment were hurt by higher natural-gas and methanol costs. 

 Although DuPont reported a $42 million turnaround at its polyester segment, where third-quarter earnings grew to $19 million from a loss of $23 million, the company said the polyester market continues to show weakness. Earnings were helped by the development of joint ventures, Gualtieri said. 

 At DuPont's nylon operations, higher raw-material costs offset the benefits of higher sales, and led to a 15% earnings decline, Gualtieri said. 

 In discussing the company's agriculture and Pioneer segments, Gualtieri said, "Farmers continue to see the benefits of using a genetically enhanced program." 


   -Christina Cheddar, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5166;
   christina.cheddar@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010805dwap041rg




Hopes of US bidder put life in Invensys; MARKET REPORT  

CLIFF FELTHAM  
765 words
25 October 2000
Daily Mail
DAIM
1ST
85
English
(c) 2000  

INVESTORS hunting for the next big bid target converged on automation and controls group Invensys pushing the price up 11p to 148p as a massive 41m shares changed hands.  

It looks vulnerable and no wonder.  

The price has crashed from 342p in January, slashing the value of the group, created by the merger last year of Siebe and BTR, to just Pounds 5bn. There  

has been mounting pressure on the board, headed by Lord Marshall, since a shock profit warning last month.  

So why the sudden movement in the price? In the US the huge United Technologies was trumped by General Electric in its bid for Honeywell.  

Dealers say it could now turn its attention on Invensys which operates in similar areas. One said: 'A bid is all that will get this share to move at the moment.' There was some relief as BT pulled out of the auction for Italian mobile phone licences It jumped 81p to 788p, dragging up other telecom stocks such as Cable & Wireless, up 89p at 950p and Energis, 64p better at 554p. That helped to propel the Footsie 122.5 higher to close at 6438.4. A strong opening on Wall Street kept the momentum going to the end of trading.  

Safeway edged up 3p to 277p on strong second-quarter trading and speculation that a bidder could be lurking in the aisles. The supermarket chain has scoffed at reports of a Pounds 4bn approach from a consortium. Like-for-like sales revenue in the 16 weeks to October 14 advanced 5.1pc with sales volume up 10.3pc.  

Rowan Morgan at Teather & Greenwood says: 'There is no reason why these shares should not go to 350p. Bid prospects are in the price for nothing.'  

Safeway has risen from 154p in March.  

Barclays' strong run (up more than 8pc in two weeks) continued with the shares up 28p at 1909p though some brokers toned down their recommendations.  

The feared sell-off by investors in Carphone Warehouse failed to materialise and the shares headed 14p higher to 174p, still a long way from their 223p peak.  

Market newcomer Collins Stewart, the broking firm bought by its management from Singer Friedlander, raced to 365p, a handy premium to its 316p placing price.  

Newly demerged P&O Princess Cruises is finding conditions choppy, shedding 8p to 280p. Analysts are cautious of prospects because of over-capacity in the US market. The less glamorous 'old' P&O, was 5p off at 237p.  

Ellis & Everard, the chemicals group, confirmed a bid approach and raced to 202p, up 54p, valuing it at around Pounds 200m. The shares peaked at 224p in January. This month Ellis reported a 9pc fall in first quarter profits.  

News that plant hire group Hewden-Stuart was in bid talks pushed the shares up 21p to 89p with punters dreaming of a take out price of 100p.  

Rival Ashtead, up 4p at 120p, is a possible bidder.  

McBride, the own-label toothpaste and washing powder supplier, eased 5p to 90p after lower full-year profits, as expected, and lower dividends. In summer it effectively put itself up for sale. A management buyout is the likely option. It was floated at 188p five years ago. US broker Lehman is sitting on 16pc.  

Engineer Charter, jilted at the altar by US partner Lincoln Electric Global, remained unwanted, losing a further 5p to 155p following Monday's savage 179p plunge. Punters who bought at the top will be licking their wounds for sometime.  

A strong buy note from its broker SG Securities pushed gold miner Navan Securities up 5p to 84p. SG set a target price of 151p based on higher metal prices and lower costs.  

Goldman Sachs lifted its forecasts for advertising group WPP following this week's strong trading figures.  

The shares rose 50p to 920p. The only worry is that some key clients' accounts come up for review in the next few weeks.  

A flurry of buying by directors of Games Workshop lifted the shares 22p to 124p, still way off their 472p peak. The company, which makes fantasy toy soldiers, has suffered from competition from Pokemon cards.  

THOMAS the Tank Engine merchandising company Britt Allcroft chugged 42p higher to 532p after superbear Mike Savage at broker Investec said the recent fall had been overdone. The shares have slumped 45pc since the collapse of a merger with rival HIT in the spring. Savage still believes Britt should get together with a stronger player.  

945782840

Document DAIM000020061017dwap00etg


 Commodity Companies Profit Despite Rash of Warnings.(Brief Article) 

 KAROL NIELSEN 
224 words
25 October 2000
Chemical Week
CHW
10
ISSN: 0009-272X; Volume 162; Issue 40
English
 Copyright 2000 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved. COPYRIGHT 2000 Chemical Week Associates 

 UNION CARBIDE'S WARNING THAT IT would not meet profit estimates for the third quarter, mostly because of rising feedstock costs, cast a shadow over basic and diversified chemicals makers. A batch of early reporting companies, however, have grown their profits compared to last year's third quarter (CW, Oct. 18, p. 5). Income, excluding one-time charges and gains, was up significantly at Eastman Chemical, Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan (PCS), FMC, Methanex, NL Industries, and Vulcan Materials Chemicals. 

 PPG Industries, however, reported a slight decline in earnings, following its warning that third-quarter profits would be below expectations (CW, Sept. 20, p. 7). "Softening demand slowed volume growth, primarily in industrial markets for coatings, new-car assembly, and monomers for vinyl construction materials," says Raymond LeBoeuf, chairman and CEO of PPG. "Because this challenging business environment is unlikely to turn around near-term and is aggravated by this year's extraordinarily high natural gas prices, growth in sales volume will probably remain low." 

 Fertilizer makers benefited from higher pricing. "These better-than-expected third-quarter results demonstrate the strengths of our asset base and our operating strategy," says Bill Doyle, president and CEO of PCS. "Our long-term gas contract in Trinidad let's us capitalize on higher nitrogen prices. 

FULL TEXT

Document chw0000020010804dwap0039u




 Pressure Grows on Sommer to Help Share Price --- Deutsche Telekom CEO Faces Countdown for VoiceStream Deal 

 By William Boston 
Staff Reporter
1,250 words
24 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
15
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 BONN -- Deutsche Telekom AG's chief executive, Ron Sommer, never tires of saying he is out to please long-term investors, not those looking for a quick profit. It may be time for Mr. Sommer to rewrite his speech and speed up his timetable. 

 Most CEOs are under pressure to increase the value of their company's shares. Mr. Sommer is under more pressure than most. His shares are down 40% since mid June, and he has about six months to arrest the decline or risk disrupting the biggest deal of his career, the $50 billion (59.33 billion euros) stock-and-cash acquisition of VoiceStream Wireless Corp., the U.S. mobile-phone outfit. 

 A little more than seven months ago, Deutsche Telekom shares peaked at 103.50 euros. In June, the German government -- still the company's biggest shareholder -- sold shares for around 65 euros each. On Monday, the shares closed at 39.50 euros. Some of this is beyond Mr. Sommers' control; Deutsche Telekom's weak stock price reflects a broader stock market downturn. But it also reflects market worries about the German telephone giant. 

 Time is not on Mr. Sommer's side. If Deutsche Telekom shares continue to fall, the VoiceStream acquisition could unravel. Deutsche Telekom plans to trade 3.2 shares of its stock and $30 for each share of VoiceStream, with no adjustment for minor ups and downs in the Telekom stock price. But the companies agreed that if Deutsche Telekom shares trade at an average of 33 euros or lower on seven randomly chosen days out of the 14 days immediately before the closing, VoiceStream can renegotiate the deal or walk away. 

 If Mr. Sommer could close the deal today, he'd be okay. But regulatory clearance probably will delay the closing until the second quarter of next year. And Deutsche Telekom is looking overvalued. Analysts estimate that based on U.S. accounting principles, the company is trading at about 25 times earnings, a hefty multiple when the profit picture is cloudy at best. 

 After years of cutting liabilities, Deutsche Telekom is back to taking on new debt to finance licenses and networks for next-generation wireless services in Europe. The VoiceStream deal will dilute earnings. And while customer numbers in mobile phones are surging, and the new services of next-generation wireless networks are promising, actual revenue per customer is falling, new customer acquisition costs are hurting profits, and the profit from next-generation wireless services are years away. 

 With competition on the rise, Deutsche Telekom is warning investors about declining margins in its core domestic telephone business, which accounted for more than 50% of its profit and 68% of revenue in the first half. 

 In the first half of this year, Deutsche Telekom reported net income of 4.35 billion euros. When extraordinary gains from the sale of its stake in the Global One venture and the T-Online initial public offering in April are taken into account, however, underlying profit fell 28% in the first half to 681 million euros. Karl-Gerhard Eick, the company's finance chief, said the margin on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization was 33.7% in the first half and would likely fall to 30% for the full year. Analysts will be looking for signs of progress when the company publishes third-quarter results, which are expected Oct. 31. 

 Mr. Sommer is also running into trouble with his internal restructuring. A plan to list the wireless unit T-Mobile International AG on the stock exchange has been delayed. The Internet unit T-Online International AG, Europe's largest Internet service provider, is troubled. Deutsche Telekom still owns 82% of the company, and its shares finished trading Monday at 22.74 euros, a few euros below the offering price. 

 T-Online's management believed the IPO would keep executives at Deutsche Telekom at arm's length. But the market is concluding that Mr. Sommer wanted acquisition currency, not a Silicon Valley start-up in the heart of Germany. The executive who took T-Online public has quit, and Mr. Sommer is replacing middle managers at the company. Others are leaving for the competition. 

 One smart move is Mr. Sommer's plan to restructure T-Online into a holding company with national subsidiaries. That will allow the units to respond more quickly to local markets. He is looking for a high-profile New Economy executive to lead the unit. But it may be a tall order to persuade a dot-com maverick to work so closely under Mr. Sommer. 

 Deutsche Telekom shares have also been hurt by expectations that the German government will continue to sell its holdings in the company, flooding the market with shares. The government holds 43% of Deutsche Telekom directly and has placed another 15% with a state-owned development bank. To help Deutsche Telekom win U.S. regulatory clearance for the VoiceStream deal, the German government is promising to reduce its direct stake in Deutsche Telekom to zero as quickly as possible. 

 Ironically, the slumping share price probably delays the German government's sale of shares. At today's prices, one government official said, "There's no way we're going to sell." 

 Is that good news or bad? It could mean fewer shares coming to market next year. But it remains a factor in market thinking, and the delay may make the VoiceStream deal harder to accept for U.S. lawmakers looking for a reason to block it. Deutsche Telekom could buy some of the government's shares itself and retire the stock, but that is unlikely: The company is strapped for cash and is borrowing so much to pay for next-generation wireless projects that in October, Standard and Poor's cut the company's long-term debt rating to single-A-minus from double-A-minus. 

 The downward pressure on Deutsche Telekom's stock is significant. People close to Mr. Sommer say there isn't much he can do but show investors that he is executing his strategy to focus the company on basic phone service, information technology services, wireless, and Internet services. He must show that the international expansion in these areas remains on track. 

 In addition to headline grabbers like the VoiceStream deal, Mr. Sommer has also used a series of small deals to make Deutsche Telekom the largest regional phone company in Eastern Europe. There should be more smart, less expensive moves like these, say his advisers. And he must avoid mistakes, stabilize T-Online and promise no more dilutive VoiceStream-like acquisitions. That has essentially been the message that he and Mr. Eick brought to investors recently in the U.S. and Europe. 

 Meanwhile, the pressure on Mr. Sommer is rising to make the shares perform. He doesn't have a lot of friends in Germany's center-left government. Some of the two million private individuals -- and voters -- who lost money when they invested in Deutsche Telekom in June are writing angry letters to the government. 

 The fall in the company's shares is also making it harder for the government's planned listing of Deutsche Post AG. Some in government would like to see Mr. Sommer go. Until now, investor backing has kept political troubles at bay. But if Mr. Sommer keeps investors waiting long, he might run out of allies. 

Document wsje000020010814dwao00gsy




 UPDATE 1-Xerox Q3 EPS in line, turnaround outlined. 

 By Ian Simpson 
634 words
24 October 2000
12:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Adds more details throughout, company comments, byline, previous STAMFORD) 

 NEW YORK, Oct 24 (Reuters) - Struggling copier maker Xerox Corp on Tuesday posted a third-quarter loss in line with its reduced forecasts and outlined a turnaround plan to cut costs by $1 billion, sell up to $4 billion in assets and deepen job cuts. 

 Stamford, Conn.-based Xerox, the world's No. 1 copier maker, said in a statement that it suffered a third-quarter loss of $128 million, or 20 cents per share. 

 The company posted a net-income gain of $339 million, or 47 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter. 

 Analysts on average forecast a loss of 19 cents per share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Xerox warned on Oct 2 it expected a third-quarter loss of 15 to 20 cents per share, due to weak September sales, tougher competition and other problems. 

 At the time of the warning, analysts had expected a profit of 12 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 This marked the fourth quarter in the past five that Xerox had warned of a shortfall. The company has come up against weaker-than-expected sales in North America and Europe, a Securities and Exchange Commission probe into accounting issues at its Mexican business and major changes at the top. 

 FLAGGING SHARES 

 Investors pummeled the already-flagging stock recently as rumours hit the market that it would seek bankruptcy protection. The company reiterated on Tuesday that it had enough funds under a $7 billion revolving credit agreement and was in compliance with its lending agreements. 

 Third-quarter revenue fell 4 percent to $4.5 billion, from $4.63 billion in the 1999 quarter. 

 Including a pre-tax charge related to the Mexico unit of $55 million, or 6 cents a share, the third-quarter net loss was $167 million. 

 Xerox said equipment sales were weak mainly in North America. The high-end business for high-speed commercial copiers was especially hard hit. 

 Xerox said it was launching a turnaround programme that included $1 billion in cost cuts in 2001. 

 The effort will include reducing more than $200 million in manufacturing and supply chain costs, switching resources from headquarters to the field and "substantially increasing" the number of employees laid off. 

 Outlining Xerox's plan, Chairman and Chief Executive Paul Allaire said: "None of these efforts will compromise our core strategy, each will contribute to our turnaround, and all are designed to enhance value for all stakeholders - customers, credit providers, shareholders and employees." 

 Xerox said it was in talks to sell assets that included its China operations, part of its ownership in Fuji Xerox, Xerox Engineering Systems and its interest in such spun-off companies as ContentGuard and Inxight. 

 Xerox also said it was talking with "a number of parties" about investing in its inkjet business. It also is exploring a joint venture with non-competitive partners for its famed Palo Alto Research Centre. 

 GENERATING CASH 

 The sale of the assets are expected to raise $2 billion to $4 billion. Analysts have said that the only way forward for the company is to sell off its assets to generate the money it needed. 

 Xerox said it would get out of the equipment financing business "over time." It added that it was exploring ways to provide financing for customers "in a manner that does not involve the Xerox balance sheet." 

 Executives close to the deal told Reuters last week that Xerox was in talks to sell its financing unit to GE Capital, a unit of General Electric Co., in a deal that could shed about $11 billion in debt. 

 The company also said it would outsource or sell some of its manufacturing operations. 

Document lba0000020010822dwao03k3g




 US Corp Bonds-Xerox edges up, Lucent firms after drop. 

 By Jonathan Stempel 
695 words
24 October 2000
14:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 24 (Reuters) - Xerox Corp.'s bonds edged up amid sparse bidding Tuesday after the company outlined what it labelled an "aggressive" plan, including job cuts, to save $1 billion in costs and raise as much as $4 billion from asset sales. 

 In broader secondary trading, spreads, the yield difference between corporate bonds and comparable maturity U.S. Treasuries, were unchanged. 

 Lucent Technologies Inc.'s bonds firmed one day after the Murray Hill, N.J.-based telecommunications company fired its chief executive, said fourth quarter profits fell 22 percent, and slashed its sales and profit outlook for the first quarter of next year. 

 The company's 5.5 percent notes maturing in 2008 were bid to yield 235 basis points over Treasuries, up from 175 on Friday. Moody's Investors and Standard & Poor's said Monday they may cut Lucent's "A2" and "A" senior debt ratings, respectively. 

 XEROX 

 Xerox, the world's No. 1 copier maker, said it lost $128 million before special items, or 20 cents per share, on revenue of $4.46 billion in its fiscal third quarter. Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial had forecast a loss of 19 cents per share. 

 Xerox had warned on Oct 2 it expected a third-quarter loss of 15 to 20 cents per share because of weak September sales, tougher competition and other problems. That was its fourth profit warning in the last five quarters. 

 The company's 5.5 percent notes maturing in 2003, which trade like junk bonds though they carry low investment grades, were bid Tuesday at about 79 cents on the dollar, up about two cents from Tuesday. 

 "People are still willing to sell three-year bonds that yield 15 percent to maturity," said one trader. 

 No bid was immediately available on Xerox's 5.875 percent notes maturing in 2004. Those were bid Monday at 75 cents on the dollar. 

 Xerox's shares closed Monday at $9-1/8, well off their 52-week high of $30-1/2 but above the $6-3/4 low. The company's shares have fallen 55 percent in the last three months. 

 The "turnaround" programme, Xerox said, includes cutting more than $200 million from manufacturing and supply chain costs, reallocating resources, and "substantially increasing" the number of employees to lay off. 

 Xerox said it was in talks to sell a variety of assets, and was talking with "a number of parties" about investing in its inkjet business. 

 Earlier this month, Xerox was forced to tap a $7 billion credit line with 58 banks rather than sell commercial paper carrying high yields demanded by sceptical investors. 

 At least one analyst considered Xerox's moves a first step, though she said the lack of specific details was bothersome. "I think they're doing the right thing, but they still have a long way to go to get back on track," said Gibboney Huske, analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 Xerox has scheduled a conference call with Allaire, chief operating officer Anne Mulcahy and chief financial officer Barry Romeril for 10 a.m. in New York (1400 GMT). 

 Moody's rates Xerox's senior debt "Baa2" with a negative outlook. S&P rates it "BBB" with a stable outlook. Fitch rates it "BBB-minus" with a negative outlook. 

 CALENDAR 

 Upcoming bond sales are AmerenEnergy Generating Co. , $400 million; BNP Paribas , $500 million, and Colonial Pipeline Co., $375 million, and in junk, Alfa Laval Special Finance AB, 220 million euros ($185 million); HCA-Healthcare Corp. , 150 million pounds ($218 million); Insight Midwest, a joint venture between Insight Communications and AT&T Broadband , $500 million, and Levi Strauss & Co., $350 million. 

 In agencies, the Inter-American Development Bank, Latin America's largest multinational lender, prepared on Tuesday to add $1 billion of Aaa/AAA rated three-year global notes to an existing issue. The notes are expected to yield 60 basis points more than two-year Treasuries. 

 Ten-and 30-year Treasuries fell 11/32 and 17/32 to yield 5.642 and 5.718 percent, respectively. 

Document lba0000020010822dwao03jm2




 Xerox Q3 EPS in line, turnaround outlined. 

 By Ian Simpson 
623 words
24 October 2000
14:13
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 24 (Reuters) - Struggling copier maker Xerox Corp on Tuesday posted a third-quarter loss in line with its reduced forecasts and outlined a turnaround plan to cut costs by $1 billion, sell up to $4 billion in assets and deepen job cuts. 

 Stamford, Conn.-based Xerox, the world's No. 1 copier maker, said in a statement that it suffered a third-quarter loss of $128 million, or 20 cents per share. 

 The company posted a net-income gain of $339 million, or 47 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter. 

 Analysts on average forecast a loss of 19 cents per share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Xerox warned on Oct 2 it expected a third-quarter loss of 15 to 20 cents per share, due to weak September sales, tougher competition and other problems. 

 At the time of the warning, analysts had expected a profit of 12 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 This marked the fourth quarter in the past five that Xerox had warned of a shortfall. The company has come up against weaker-than-expected sales in North America and Europe, a Securities and Exchange Commission probe into accounting issues at its Mexican business and major changes at the top. 

 FLAGGING SHARES 

 Investors pummeled the already-flagging stock recently as rumours hit the market that it would seek bankruptcy protection. The company reiterated on Tuesday that it had enough funds under a $7 billion revolving credit agreement and was in compliance with its lending agreements. 

 Third-quarter revenue fell 4 percent to $4.5 billion, from $4.63 billion in the 1999 quarter. 

 Including a pre-tax charge related to the Mexico unit of $55 million, or 6 cents a share, the third-quarter net loss was $167 million. 

 Xerox said equipment sales were weak mainly in North America. The high-end business for high-speed commercial copiers was especially hard hit. 

 Xerox said it was launching a turnaround programme that included $1 billion in cost cuts in 2001. 

 The effort will include reducing more than $200 million in manufacturing and supply chain costs, switching resources from headquarters to the field and "substantially increasing" the number of employees laid off. 

 Outlining Xerox's plan, Chairman and Chief Executive Paul Allaire said: "None of these efforts will compromise our core strategy, each will contribute to our turnaround, and all are designed to enhance value for all stakeholders - customers, credit providers, shareholders and employees." 

 Xerox said it was in talks to sell assets that included its China operations, part of its ownership in Fuji Xerox, Xerox Engineering Systems and its interest in such spun-off companies as ContentGuard and Inxight. 

 Xerox also said it was talking with "a number of parties" about investing in its inkjet business. It also is exploring a joint venture with non-competitive partners for its famed Palo Alto Research Centre. 

 GENERATING CASH 

 The sale of the assets are expected to raise $2 billion to $4 billion. Analysts have said that the only way forward for the company is to sell off its assets to generate the money it needed. 

 Xerox said it would get out of the equipment financing business "over time." It added that it was exploring ways to provide financing for customers "in a manner that does not involve the Xerox balance sheet." 

 Executives close to the deal told Reuters last week that Xerox was in talks to sell its financing unit to GE Capital, a unit of General Electric Co. , in a deal that could shed about $11 billion in debt. 

 The company also said it would outsource or sell some of its manufacturing operations. 

Document lba0000020010822dwao03j12




 UPDATE 2-Xerox Q3 EPS in line, turnaround outlined. 

755 words
24 October 2000
12:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 STAMFORD, Conn., Oct 24 (Reuters) - Struggling copier maker Xerox Corp on Tuesday posted a third-quarter loss at the lower end of its reduced forecasts and outlined a turnaround plan to cut costs by $1 billion, sell up to $4 billion in assets and deepen job cuts. 

 Stamford, Conn.-based Xerox, the world's No. 1 copier maker, said in a statement that it suffered a third-quarter loss before special items of $128 million, or a loss of 20 cents per share. 

 The company posted a net-income gain of $339 million, or 47 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter. 

 Analysts on average forecast a loss of 19 cents per share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Xerox warned on Oct 2 it expected a third-quarter loss of 15 to 20 cents per share, due to weak September sales, tougher competition and other problems. 

 At the time of the warning, analysts had expected a profit of 12 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 This marked the fourth quarter in the past five that Xerox had warned of a shortfall. The company has come up against weaker-than-expected sales in North America and Europe, a Securities and Exchange Commission probe into accounting issues at its Mexican business and major changes at the top. 

 FLAGGING SHARES 

 Investors pummeled the already-flagging stock recently as rumours hit the market that it would seek bankruptcy protection. The company reiterated on Tuesday that it had enough funds under a $7 billion revolving credit agreement and was in compliance with its lending agreements. 

 Xerox was up at $9-1/4 in pre-opening trading on the Instinet electronic broker system. On Monday, shares closed at $9-1/8, well off the 52-week high of $30-1/2 but above the $6-3/4 low. The company's shares have fallen by 79 percent in the past year and 55 percent in the last three months. 

 Third-quarter revenue fell 4 percent to $4.5 billion, from $4.63 billion in the 1999 quarter. 

 Including a pre-tax charge related to the Mexico unit of $55 million, or 6 cents a share, the third-quarter net loss was $167 million. 

 Xerox said equipment sales were weak mainly in North America. The high-end business for high-speed commercial copiers was especially hard hit. 

 RESTRUCTURING PLAN IS LAUNCHED 

 Xerox said it was launching a turnaround programme that included $1 billion in cost cuts in 2001. 

 The effort will include reducing more than $200 million in manufacturing and supply chain costs, switching resources from headquarters to the field and "substantially increasing" the number of employees laid off. 

 Outlining Xerox's plan, Chairman and Chief Executive Paul Allaire said: "None of these efforts will compromise our core strategy, each will contribute to our turnaround, and all are designed to enhance value for all stakeholders - customers, credit providers, shareholders and employees." 

 Xerox said it was in talks to sell assets that included its China operations, part of its ownership in Fuji Xerox, Xerox Engineering Systems and its interest in such spun-off companies as ContentGuard and Inxight. 

 Xerox also said it was talking with "a number of parties" about investing in its inkjet business. It also is exploring a joint venture with non-competitive partners for its famed Palo Alto Research Centre. 

 GENERATING CASH 

 The sale of the assets are expected to raise $2 billion to $4 billion. Analysts have said that the only way forward for the company is to sell off its assets to generate the money it needed. 

 Xerox said it would get out of the equipment financing business "over time." It added that it was exploring ways to provide financing for customers "in a manner that does not involve the Xerox balance sheet." 

 "I think they're doing the right thing, but they still have a long way to go to get back on track," said Gibboney Huske, analyst at CS First Boston. 

 Huske said she was bothered by the lack of detail in the news release, and said it is crucial that Xerox exit the financing business quickly, in order to reduce its $18-billion debt load by some $11 billion. 

 "They have a plan that makes sense, and will probably get them where they need to go, but obviously it's still early in the process, and there remains a lot of risk," Huske said, maintaining her "hold" rating on the stock. 

Document lba0000020010822dwao03iqz




 Goodyear Posts Wider-Than-Expected Loss, Hurt By High Costs, Price Pressures 

537 words
24 October 2000
14:01
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 AKRON, Ohio -- Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. reported a third-quarter loss that was wider than expected, blaming higher costs for energy and raw materials, as well as tough pricing competition. 

 The tire maker posted a net loss of $6.6 million, or four cents a share, compared with net income of $109.1 million, or 69 cents a share, a year earlier. 

 The latest results include charges of $1.2 million, or one cent a share, related to closing a manufacturing facility in Italy and a gain of $3.2 million, or two cents a share, from a property sale in Mexico. Without these items, the company said it would have lost $4.6 million, or three cents a share. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial expected the company to post a loss of two cents a share. 

 Analysts sharply reduced their estimates last month after Goodyear warned that it would report a small third-quarter loss because of higher oil prices and other factors. Before the warning, analysts had expected the company to post a profit of 29 cents a share. 

 Sales increased 5.9% to $3.48 billion from $3.29 billion. The company's Dunlop joint ventures with Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd. of Japan. contributed $540 million in sales in the third quarter, up from $232 million a year earlier. 

 In addition to higher materials costs, Goodyear (GT) cited the weak euro. Third-quarter earnings were approximately 40 cents a share lower than they would have been if costs had remained at 1999 levels, while the currency factors cut an estimated $90 million from third-quarter sales, Goodyear said. Competitive pressures hampered the company's ability to raise prices to offset cost increases. 

 Tire volume rose 4.3% to 29.5 million units. The Dunlop venture sold 3.3 million units in the period. Replacement volume increased, but shipments to automobile and truck makers fell approximately 7%. 

 In response to the weak results, the company said it has cut production in certain markets, curtailed discretionary spending and is starting projects to increase sales and profit margins. Goodyear has vowed to shift more production to low-cost locations and, where necessary, close plants that aren't competitive. 

 The company said vowed to maximize the opportunity presented by rival Bridgestone/Firestone Inc.'s recent tire recall. In a conference call with investors and analysts, Samir Gibara, chairman and chief executive of Goodyear, said the company expects to gain market share in 2001 because of the Bridgestone/Firestone recall. "I don't see a way around Firestone losing share," Mr. Gibara said. "And we will benefit from that." 

 Mr. Gibara said a weak euro and rising raw-material prices eclipsed any gains from the tire recall in the third quarter. Besides that, Mr. Gibara added, the recall didn't boost sales across the entire tire line, just the particular tire size that was recalled. 

 Goodyear said its 2001 results will also reflect price increases, improved manufacturing efficiency and more stable raw-material costs. It sees continued weakness in the commercial-truck market. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwao01n52




 Lear's Profit Drops 1.8% in Third Quarter, Topping Diminished Forecast 

514 words
24 October 2000
10:34
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 SOUTHFIELD, Mich. -- Lear Corp. reported a 1.8% decline in third-quarter earnings, as the supplier of automotive interiors was hurt by the impact of weak European currencies, divestitures and lower production levels. 

 Lear (LEA) reported net income of $38.6 million, or 59 cents a share, compared with $39.3 million, or 58 cents a share, a year earlier. The per-share figure rose because the number of shares outstanding fell. 

 The results beat the scaled-back expectations of analysts for a profit of 56 cents a share, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. Analysts had expected earnings of 66 cents a share before Lear warned in August that earnings would be hurt by currency factors and production cuts at Ford Motor Co. (F). 

 Lear's sales rose 3.2% to $3.14 billion from $3.05 billion. Sales in the U.S. and Canada edged up 1% to $1.93 billion. However, European sales fell 5.4% to $870 million because of weaker European currencies, Lear said. Sales elsewhere around the world rose 6.4% to $345 million. 

 Lear, Southfield, Mich., reported 65.1 million shares outstanding at the end of the quarter, compared with 67.9 million a year earlier. In March, Lear's board approved a repurchase program for up to 6.7 million shares over 24 months. 

 Lear's Auguest profit warning was prompted by Ford's three-week production halt on its Explorer and Ranger trucks related to the Bridgestone/Firestone Inc. tire recall. 

 In a post-earnings interview, Chief Financial Officer Donald Stebbin said Lear is confident it can meet Wall Street's expectations for fourth-quarter earnings of $1.45 a share, as determined by analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial, even though it expects sales for the period to be flat or down from a year earlier. 

 Lear expects North American and European vehicle production to slow down in the fourth quarter. Lear forecasts North American production volumes will decline in 2001 to about 16.4 million vehicles from an estimated 17.3 million this year. 

 In addition, Lear is getting hurt by the weak euro. Translating euro-denominated sales into dollars cost Lear $120 million in the third quarter, and "we see the same level of impact in the fourth quarter," Mr. Stebbins said. The cost of the weaker-than-expected euro will total about $500 million for the full year, he said. 

 Vice Chairman James Vandenberghe said Lear is facing pressure from big auto makers for additional price cutting as real prices for new vehicles remain flat or down, but he described this as "business as usual." For 2001 to 2005, Lear's backlog of new business is $3.5 billion, he said. 

 Lear has been aiming for double-digit growth rates, but Mr. Vandenberghe said growth will be slower than that in the near term. "Our business is still growing internally by 8%," he said. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwao01n3n




 Business; Financial Desk 
 EARNINGS ROUNDUP SBC Profit Flat; Internet, Marketing Expenses Cited 

From Times Staff and Wire Reports
692 words
24 October 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-3
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 SBC Communications Inc., the No. 2 U.S. local telephone company, said Monday its third-quarter operating profit was virtually flat as it spent heavily on its Internet infrastructure and long-distance marketing. 

 Despite strong data and wireless revenue, SBC posted profit of $1.96 billion, or 57 cents a share, compared with $1.97 billion, or 57 cents a share, a year ago. The earnings were a penny higher than the analysts' consensus estimate. 

 SBC, whose holdings include Pacific Bell, said revenue rose 8% to $13.45 billion. Data transmission sales climbed 46%, while mobile-phone subscriber revenue grew 20%. 

 The company said profit was weakened by spending on its project to build digital subscriber lines over regular copper phone lines. 

 It also was weighed down by marketing expenses as it entered the long-distance market in Texas. The company said, however, that it had 1 million long-distance customers in the state as of Oct. 18. 

 Separately, SBC said it expects the city of Dallas to be one of the first major customers of its so-called IP telephony services. 

 The city is expected to approve a redesign of its municipal phone network shifting as many as 8,000 phones from a conventional PBX network to one that is Internet-based. That will theoretically give users more flexible features, including unified voicemail and e-mail. 

 The contract reflects SBC's plans to offer IP telephony services to all business customers using basic technology from Cisco Systems, Nortel Networks and Lucent Technologies. Some of these services will be available by the end of the year for customers planning to migrate to IP telephony without fully scrapping their PBX systems. 

 Shares in San Antonio-based SBC rose $3.38, or 6%, to close at $54.13 on the NYSE. 

 At a Glance 

 Other earnings, excluding one-time gains or charges unless noted, include: 

 * American Express Co.'s third-quarter profit rose 14% to $737 million, or 54 cents a share, matching estimates, as revenue rose 13% to $5.55 billion. 

 * Conoco Inc. said third-quarter earnings doubled to $523 million, or 83 cents a share, beyond forecasts of 76 cents, on higher prices for oil and natural gas as well as improved returns from its refining and marketing businesses. Revenue jumped 43% to $10.7 billion. 

 * Corning Inc. said third-quarter earnings more than doubled to $317 million, or 35 cents a share, from $148 million, or 19 cents, a year ago, beating upwardly revised forecasts by a penny. Sales rose 55% to $1.94 billion. 

 * HCA-Healthcare Corp. said its third-quarter operating profit rose 20% to $186 million, or 33 cents a share, 2 cents better than forecasts, as the hospital operator admitted more patients and charged managed-care insurers higher prices. Revenue rose 5% to $4.09 billion. 

 * Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co. reported an 8% rise in third-quarter profit to $499 million, or $1.25 a share, a penny better than forecasts, boosted by strong sales in Asia. The maker of products ranging from Post-It Notes to telecommunications equipment said sales rose 6.4% to $4.25 billion. 

 * RadioShack Corp. said third-quarter profit grew 29% to $77.1 million, or 39 cents a share, a penny better than forecasts, as the retailer of digital televisions, music systems and other electronics cut prices to boost sales. Revenue was up 19% to $1.14 billion. 

 * Safeco Corp.'s third-quarter profit grew 25% to $12.2 million, or 10 cents a share, as losses from storms and other catastrophes declined and the insurer raised rates. Analysts had cut their estimates to 6 cents from 25 earlier this month after a company warning. Revenue rose 4.6% to $5.43 billion. 

 * Southern Co., the largest U.S. electricity producer, said third-quarter earnings rose 7.4% to $668 million, or $1.03 a share, beyond the average estimate of 92 cents, as revenue more than doubled to $7.48 billion from $3.74 billion. 

 * 

 Bloomberg News contributed to this report. 

Document latm000020010808dwao024k0




 UPDATE 2-RadioShack third-quarter profit up but shares fall. 

 By Anna Driver 
512 words
23 October 2000
15:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Recasts lead, adds analysts' comments paragraphs 3, 5, 10-14, share price paragraph 4, adds byline; previous FORT WORTH) 

 CHICAGO, Oct 23 (Reuters) - Consumer electronics retailer RadioShack Corp. on Monday said sales of digital products like wireless phones helped generate a 29 percent increase in third-quarter earnings, but its shares fell 11 percent after investor hopes of a bigger profit were dashed. 

 Net income in the third quarter ended September 30 rose to $77.1 million, or 39 cents a diluted share, compared with $59.8 million, or 29 cents, in the same quarter a year ago. 

 The Fort Worth, Texas-based company beat the First Call/Thomson Financial analyst consensus of 38 cents a share, but analysts said some investors were looking for a profit of 40 cents or more. 

 Shares of RadioShack were off $5-7/8 at $46-7/8 in morning trade on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 "Some people may have had whisper numbers of 40 cents or better," said Scott Ciccarelli, who follows the company for Gerard Klauer Mattison & Co.. 

 Fort Worth, Texas-based RadioShack, which has more than 7,100 stores and dealers, reported sales of $1.14 billion, up from $960.3 million in the year-ago quarter. 

 "All year long, consumer demand for digital products has driven RadioShack's business, enabling us to achieve solid top line and bottom line growth in all three quarters of the year," Leonard Roberts, chairman, president and chief executive of RadioShack, said in a statement. 

 RadioShack is faring better than rival Circuit City Stores Inc., which warned on Friday of a third-quarter loss due to a significant decline in sales during the past four weeks. 

 Analysts said that although consumer electronics sales have slowed from last year's pace, Circuit City's problems are exacerbated by the fact that the chain is undergoing an ambitious three-year plan to remodel all of its stores, a process that can disrupt store traffic. 

 Another Wall Street analyst said RadioShack's sales were helped by the retailer's decision to carry a wider range of products. 

 "They came in at the high end of estimates but they didn't blow them away," said John Glass, retail industry analyst with Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. "RadioShack has been driven by its internal sales drivers. It's not really as dependent on the macro environment to get good comps (same-store sales)." 

 "They are selling things they didn't sell last year, such as some of the new wireless products and the RCA products," he said. 

 RadioShack shares were dragged down by its competitor's profit warning on Friday, but the stock held up better than Circuit City or Best Buy Co. Inc. as investors waited for RadioShack's earnings. 

 "The stock has held up really well despite its competitors being off very sharply the last few days," Ciccarelli said. "It is partly a situation where people were buying on the rumour and selling on the news." 

Document lba0000020010822dwan03qit




 UPDATE 3-RadioShack third-quarter profit up, shares rebound. 

 By Anna Driver 
659 words
23 October 2000
19:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Recasts lead, adds share price paragraph 2, details paragraphs 5-8) 

 CHICAGO, Oct 23 (Reuters) - Consumer electronics retailer RadioShack Corp. on Monday said sales of digital products like wireless phones helped generate a 29 percent increase in third-quarter earnings, and the company gave a rosy outlook that caused its shares to reverse earlier declines. 

 By midafternoon Monday RadioShack shares were $2-7/8 higher at $55-5/8, after sinking as low as $46-1/16 in the morning. 

 Net income in the third quarter ended September 30 rose to $77.1 million, or 39 cents a diluted share, compared with $59.8 million, or 29 cents, in the same quarter a year ago. 

 The Fort Worth, Texas-based company beat the First Call/Thomson Financial analyst consensus of 38 cents a share. 

 On a conference call with analysts and investors, RadioShack said it backed the First Call/Thomson Financial mean estimate from Wall Street analysts of 75 cents a share for the fourth quarter and said same-stores sales were better than expected in October. 

 "We are very comfortable with the Street consensus for the fourth quarter and for 2001," Dwayne Hughes, RadioShack chief financial officer, said on the conference call. The consensus estimate is $2.18 per share for 2001. 

 The company also said it now expects same-store sales in October to grow on a percentage basis in the upper-single digits - and possibly double digits - versus a previous forecast in the mid-to upper-single digits. 

 RadioShack shares fell as much as 11 percent in morning trade after some investors were disappointed that the company didn't top the "whisper number" forecast of 40 cents. A whisper number is an unofficial earnings estimate that circulates in the trading community and is often higher than analysts' estimates. 

 "Some people may have had whisper numbers of 40 cents or better," said Scott Ciccarelli, who follows the company for Gerard Klauer Mattison & Co.. 

 Fort Worth, Texas-based RadioShack, which has more than 7,100 stores and dealers, reported sales of $1.14 billion, up from $960.3 million in the year-ago quarter. 

 "All year long, consumer demand for digital products has driven RadioShack's business, enabling us to achieve solid top line and bottom line growth in all three quarters of the year," Leonard Roberts, chairman, president and chief executive of RadioShack, said in a statement. 

 RadioShack is faring better than rival Circuit City Stores Inc., which warned on Friday of a third-quarter loss due to a significant decline in sales during the past four weeks. 

 Analysts said that although consumer electronics sales have slowed from last year's pace, Circuit City's problems are exacerbated by the fact that the chain is undergoing an ambitious three-year plan to remodel all of its stores, a process that can disrupt store traffic. 

 Another Wall Street analyst said RadioShack's sales were helped by the retailer's decision to carry a wider range of products. 

 "They came in at the high end of estimates but they didn't blow them away," said John Glass, retail industry analyst with Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. "RadioShack has been driven by its internal sales drivers. It's not really as dependent on the macro environment to get good comps (same-store sales)." 

 "They are selling things they didn't sell last year, such as some of the new wireless products and the RCA products," he said. 

 RadioShack shares were dragged down by its competitor's profit warning on Friday, but the stock held up better than Circuit City or Best Buy Co. Inc. as investors waited for RadioShack's earnings. 

 "The stock has held up really well despite its competitors being off very sharply the last few days," Ciccarelli said. "It is partly a situation where people were buying on the rumour and selling on the news." 

Document lba0000020010822dwan03qbb




 Ericsson rebounds but brokers downgrade. 

 By Jan Strupczewski 
514 words
23 October 2000
13:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 STOCKHOLM, Oct 23 (Reuters) - Shares in Ericssonrebounded from opening lows at midday on Monday but brokers dowwgraded the stock after the company's Friday warning about mobile phone losses. 

 Ericsson, the world's biggest mobile networks maker and third biggest mobile phone producer, drew some strength from the rise of European telecoms stocks and bottom fishing, analysts said. 

 Its share initially extended Friday's 16 percent slide caused by its nine-month report and executives' bearish remarks, with another nine percent fall to intraday lows of 116 crowns. 

 But at 1105 GMT it clawed back to 120.0 crowns. 

 "It was simply far too oversold," said Ulf Torgrimsson, analyst at the Matteus brokerage in Stockholm. 

 "It has also drawn some strength from the better sentiment in the telecoms sector after British Telecom pulled out of the Italian UMTS auction, but generally the market is still bearish on the company," he said. 

 BT-backed Blu quit the Italian tender after just two days of bidding, in a move which will enable the remaining five bidders for the five licences to pay much less then originally expected. 

 Analysts have been concerned that the high costs of UMTS licences would mean slower sector growth and lower earnings. 

 BROKERS DOWNGRADE STOCK But the bearish Friday news prevailed and Standard & Poor's rating agency revised its outlook for Ericsson to negative from stable. 

 Lehman Brothers cut its rating to 2 Outperform from 1 Buy and the Swedish Ohman brokerage cut its rating to accumulate from buy, citing the disappointing conference call. 

 JP Morgan also downgraded the company. 

 "On the heels of Ericsson's third-quarter results, we are downgrading our rating on Ericsson shares to a Market Performer from a Long-term Buy," it said. 

 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Deutsche Bank and the Swedish Matteus brokerage kept their rating flat but cut their price targets for the firm. 

 Ericsson's steep losses were caused by remarks by its executives during a Friday conference call with analysts which followed a veiled profit warning released in its nine month results. 

 The company said its profit margins would shrink to 6-7 percent this year from the expected 10 percent and announced the loss of its handset divison would be 16 billion crowns in 2000 - twice the amount expected by the market. 

 The firm also postponed the date for returning the handsets business to the black to the second half of 2001 from the first half and said its sales in 2000 would grow "around 25 percent" instead of the previous "exceeding 25 percent". 

 Ericsson executives also said that to further slim the loss making operation, the firm would cut its new handset models portfolio and forecast only a one percent operating margin for the whole company in the fourth quarter. 

 Problems with the handset division, which accounts for only 20 percent of the firm's otherwise hugely profitable networks business, overshadowed the fact that Ericsson beat market expectations by more than tripling nine-month pre-tax profit to 24.1 billion crowns. 

Document lba0000020010822dwan03q9i




 Ericsson slips in line with U.S. selling. 

128 words
23 October 2000
09:11
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 STOCKHOLM, Oct 23 (Reuters) - Shares in Swedish telecoms equipment maker Ericssonsagged nine percent in early trade on Monday in line with late losses in U.S. trade on Friday with bearish sentiment persisting after its profit warning. 

 The stock, which shed as much as 28 percent on Friday but clawed back to close 16 percent down at 127 crowns, dipped to 116 in early Stockholm trade and was last at 119 crowns, having closed at 118 crowns on Wall Street. 

 Ericsson beat market expectations by more than tripling nine-month pre-tax profit to 24.1 billion crowns, but cut its sales and margins outlook for 2000 and forecast a loss from its handset division twice as large as expected. 

Document lba0000020010822dwan03ouh




 Charter tumbles 44 pct after double blow. 

245 words
23 October 2000
08:03
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Oct 23 (Reuters) - Britain's Charter Plc suffered a stock market drubbing early on Monday, after the double blow of the withdrawal of a takeover offer and a subsequent profit warning from the engineering group. 

 The stock - which had already dropped 41 pence on Friday ahead of the confirmation that the offer had been withdrawn - was quoted down 151 pence or 44.6 percent at 187-1/2p by 0855 GMT. 

 In a statement received on Saturday, Charter said it was dismayed at the decision of U.S.-based Lincoln Electric Holdings Inc to lapse its bid, announced late Friday, and warned of significantly lower profits in the second half of the year. 

 Blaming the shortfall partly on uncertainty around the drawn-out takeover, the UK firm also said it would cut its first half dividend to seven pence from 9.5 pence a year before. 

 It said it was disappointed Lincoln's 410 pence a share cash offer, which had valued Charter at around 386 million pounds, had fallen through and reserved the right to take legal action. 

 "We are dismayed that Lincoln has lapsed the offer without any explanation," Charter Chairman Jeffrey Herbert said. "The unusually long period of the offer led to great uncertainty, which has impacted on our business." 

 The decline took Charter shares below their level of 244 pence on April 25, the day before the original announcement of Lincoln's interest. 

Document lba0000020010822dwan03ort




 UPDATE 1-Int'l Flavors Q3 declines, to take Q4 charge. 

365 words
23 October 2000
07:11
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Add details) 

 NEW YORK, Oct 23 (Reuters) - Top fragrance maker International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. reported a 41 percent decline in third quarter earnings from a year ago, citing slow business conditions in North America. 

 But its earnings did slightly beat Wall Street expectations, which were lowered following a profit warning last month. 

 The company, which is slated to buy rival Bush Boake Allen Inc. for $970 million in a deal that is expected to close by the end of the year, also said it would take a fourth quarter charge of $21 million from a voluntary early retirement plan. 

 Under the plan, 145 employees are eligible for early retirement. 

 Earlier this month, the company announced it would take a $90 million to $100 million reorganisation charge over the next 18 to 24 months. 

 The company reported a third quarter profit of $28.9 million, or 29 cents a share, compared with $49.2 million, or 46 cents a share in the third quarter of 1999. 

 Excluding one-time reorganisation charges, the company reported earnings of 34 cents a share, compared with a Wall Street consensus estimate of 33 cents a share. 

 The company announced on September 25, the day it announced its deal with Bush Boake, that its earnings would fall short of year-ago results because of a decline in annual sales, which were expected to fall 4 percent. 

 Third quarter revenues totalled $339.6 million, down 6.9 percent from $364.7 million in the year ago period. 

 The company said on Monday that North American sales declined by eight percent as a result of weak performance in the company's flavour operations., "reflecting the continued slow business conditions facing many of the company's food customers." 

 Total sales in local currencies declined two percent in the third quarter from a year ago. 

 It shares closed at $15-) in Friday's trading on the New York Stock Exchange, down $1/2 from the previous session. Since the Bush Boake deal was announced, shares have plummeted from a high of $24-( to a 52-week low of $15-7/16 last week. 

Document lba0000020010822dwan03nrl




 Int'l Flavors Q3 earnings falls, to take Q4 charge. 

219 words
23 October 2000
06:56
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 23 (Reuters) - No. 1 fragrance maker International Flavors & Fragrances Inc reported a 41 percent decline in third quarter earnings from a year ago, citing slow business conditions in North America. 

 But its earnings did slightly beat Wall Street expectations, which were lowered following a profit warning last month. 

 The company, which is slated to buy rival Bush Boake Allen Inc for $970 million in a deal expected to close by the end of the year, also said it would take a fourth quarter charge of $21 million from a voluntary early retirement plan. 

 Under the plan, 145 employees are eligible for early retirement. 

 Earlier this month, the company announced it would take a $90 million to $100 million reorganization charge over the next 18 to 24 months. 

 The company reported a third quarter profit of $28.9 million or 29 cents a share, compared with $49.2 million or 46 cents a share in the third quarter of 1999. 

 Excluding one-time reorganization charges, the company reported earnings of 34 cents a share, compared with a Wall Street consensus estimate of 33 cents a share. 

 Third quarter revenues totalled $339.6 million, down 6.9 percent from $364.7 million in the year-ago period. 

Document lba0000020010822dwan03no4


 Profit warning  from Union Carbide. 

129 words
23 October 2000
Informations Chimie Hebdo
ICHEDI
3
English
(c) 2000 Royal Society of Chemistry

 Union Carbide has issued a profit warning for 3Q 2000. The group, which for 3Q 1999, posted profits per share of $0.36, expects its 3Q 2000 figure to be $0.20 and that even that will fall. Some analysts had expected 3Q 2000 profits per share to be $0.57. Union Carbide blames the decline on falling prices for polyethylene and ethylene glycol combined with higher prices for naphtha. Both the volume and value of the group's sales have been lower than expected. The news led to a decline of 10% in the value of shares in Union Carbide and in Dow (which is awaiting US approval to take over Union Carbide). 

 Chimie Hebdo, No. 106 

 (c) Royal Society of Chemistry 2000. 

Document ichedi0020010811dwan00155




 Lucent Ousts Chief Executive, Issues Another Warning 

1,108 words
23 October 2000
13:36
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 MURRAY HILL, N.J. -- Lucent Technologies Inc.'s board ousted Chairman and Chief Executive Richard McGinn and the telecommunications-equipment maker said it expects to fall far short of analysts' expectations for its fiscal first quarter ending Dec. 31. 

 Monday's move confirmed widespread speculation that Mr. McGinn's job was on the line following three consecutive quarters of earnings disappointments. Lucent's board "reviewed Lucent's recent performance and outlook for the current quarter and determined that an immediate change in leadership was necessary," the company said in a prepared statement. 

 Lucent's (LU) board tapped former chief Henry Schacht to replace Mr. McGinn while the company searches for a permanent successor. Mr. Schacht, 66 years old, stepped down as Lucent's CEO in 1997 and retired as chairman in 1998. 

 Mr. Schacht, who will manage day-to-day operations at Lucent, will immediately step down as chairman of Lucent spinoff Avaya Inc. (AV), a position he assumed in March. He will continue to serve as a member of Avaya's board. 

 "This was a difficult decision made after considerable deliberation," Franklin Thomas, a Lucent director, said in a prepared statement. "Rich has made significant contributions to Lucent over the past five years as he focused the company on the growth markets and key technologies that would ensure its future prosperity. However, the board felt a different set of skills was required at this point in the company's life." 

 Earlier this month, Lucent confirmed Wall Street's fears that profit for the fiscal fourth quarter ended Sept. 30 fell far short of already reduced expectations. The announcement marked the second time Lucent reduced its fourth-quarter expectations. 

 For the fourth quarter, Lucent, Murray Hill, N.J., reported a net loss of $225 million, or seven cents a share, compared with net income of $947 million, or 29 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue from continuing operations increased 15% to $9.36 billion from $8.17 billion a year earlier. 

 Excluding a variety of items, Lucent said fourth-quarter earnings from operations came to $600 million, or 18 cents a share, down from $768 million, or 24 cents a share, a year earlier. The fourth-quarter results were "about what most people expected," said one analyst. "The best news is that Mr. McGinn is gone." 

 "We are clearly disappointed in our results for fiscal year 2000," said Mr. Schacht. "We are looking at fiscal year 2001 as a transition and rebuilding year." 

 He also said that the company's problems of the past year were ones of "execution and focus," but described them as "fixable." He added the company won't give any guidance for 2001 until January. 

 For the fiscal first quarter ending Dec. 31, Lucent expects to report earnings from continuing operations of less than once cent a share. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for first-quarter earnings of 23 cents a share. Lucent also expects to report a 7% decline in revenue from continuing operations. 

 "That's a very, very weak performance," said Salomon Smith Barney analyst Alexander Henderson. He added that gross profit margins at the company have obviously slipped dramatically, which "would imply substantial vendor financing pressure." 

 Lucent said it moving ahead with plans to spin off its microelectronics business and sell its power systems business. Lucent also said it has ended its search for a chief operating officer, but didn't give further details. 

 Lucent's problems, critics say, stem from a reliance on older, outdated technology, a failure to respond to a changing market, and a rigid internal culture inherited from former parent AT&T Corp. that has helped to drive away hordes of talented employees, particularly those who came with acquisitions Lucent made of promising start-ups. 

 Some market watchers have criticized Lucent for falling short on meeting demand for hot new optical-networking equipment, used to shuttle large amounts of video, voice and data traffic at lightning-fast speeds. But analysts also feel that Lucent took too long to address internal problems and that management under Mr. McGinn clearly had a poor grasp of the business, suggesting problems go beyond just one wrong technology bet. 

 Analysts said Mr. McGinn's departure and the company's bleak outlook for the fiscal first quarter don't point to a quick turnaround. "My guess is (Lucent's) not going to snap back," said Mr. Henderson. "It's going to take quite awhile." 

 When Lucent issued its fourth-quarter warning earlier this month, Mr. McGinn blamed weak revenue and profit margins in fiber-optic systems as well as a faster-than-expected decline in sales of its more traditional telephone gear. The advisory prompted a host of Wall Street analysts and many of Lucent's competitors -- including Canada's Nortel Networks Inc. (NT) and France's Alcatel SA (ALA) -- to defend the rest of the fiber-optics sector, saying Lucent's problems didn't indicate an overall weakness and that industry demand is expected to remain robust. 

 Mr. Henderson said Lucent's past problems and revised projections reveal a dynamic at work in the company that had been previously glossed over. Lucent, which has engaged in aggressive financing for telecom start-ups, said earlier in October that it was forced to set aside larger reserves for bad debt for those companies, which recently have run into myriad troubles. Increased competition in the telecom sector has caused a drought of capital as the financial markets sour on the group. 

 "We have already begun a number of initiatives to sharpen our execution, reduce complexity and increase our efficiencies," Deborah Hopkins, Lucent's chief financial officer, said in statement released late Monday. Ms. Hopkins said that those initiatives include "an intense review of Lucent's product portfolio" and "re-deploying the company's marketing and sales resources." 

 "We intend to create a new Lucent -- a dynamic company that, in the long term, will be stronger, more focused and better positioned to capitalize on the opportunities that exist in this robust and growing market," Ms. Hopkins said. 

 She noted that the company's fiber optics system business - much touted because of its potential - would see flat or little revenue growth in the fiscal first quarter from roughly $500 million in the fourth quarter. 

 At 4 p.m. EDT on the New York Stock Exchange, shares of Lucent were off 56 cents, or 2.4%, at $22.06, not far from a 12-month low of $20 set Oct. 11. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwan01mws




 MARKET TALK: 'Cleanest Deal You'll Ever See,' Welch Says 

1,528 words
23 October 2000
15:31
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 10:30 (Dow Jones) At his press conference in New York earlier, the fiery Jack Welch said the combination of GE and Honeywell International (HON) will be a "home run." He also stressed the deal should pass regulatory muster although he did concede the companies hadn't contacted regulatory authorities before announcing the deal, given how fast the agreement came together. "We haven't touched all bases," Welch said. But he said, "this is the cleanest deal you'll ever see" and should produce accelerating double-digit earnings accretion and expanding margins. (CCW) 

 10:27 (Dow Jones) Recent rate tightenings have only crimped profits and growth, not decreased inflationary pressure, according to Renaissance Capital, which runs the IPO Plus Aftermarket Fund. As a result, investors have been "forced to fly through turbulence because of the Fed's zeal to bring the economy in for a soft landing," the firm says. "Unfortunately, there were not enough air-sickness bags to go around." (RJH) 

 10:25 (Dow Jones) Gruntal's Joe Battipaglia says worst of correction over. Year-end targets remain 4300 on Nasdaq, 1625 on S&P 500, and 12500 on DJIA. If he's right, both DJIA and Nasdaq will have advanced by more than 20% in last 2 1/2 months of year. (TG) 

 10:11 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to weaken, falling to an intraday low of 108.35. EUR/JPY has steadied just under 91, now at 90.98. (RTB) 

 10:08 (Dow Jones) Stocks holding on to moderate gains. DJIA up 68 at 10295, Nasdaq adds 20 to 3503, and S&P 500 gains 3 to 1399. HON and GE moves essentially offsetting each other in DJIA. GE shares, off 5%, are holding up better, on a percentage basis, than UTX shares did when Street thought that co. was buying HON. Semis, drugs look good. Big numbers from 3M help those shares up 6.5%. (TG) 

 10:02 (Dow Jones) Stock mutual funds lost a heavy $9.11 billion in outflows between Tuesday and Thurday, according to TrimTabs.com. But the fund tracker expects large inflows for the Friday-Monday period, given the rally on Thursday and Friday. (YXH) 

 10:00 (Dow Jones) Challenger survey shows pace of announced layoffs is accelerating at a record clip in the Internet sector of the economy. Cuts in the dot-com sector totalled 5,677 in month ending Oct. 23, up 18% from Sept.'s 4,805, the outplacement firm said. (JNP) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Traders and money managers are aggressively trafficking in bullish call options and bearish index put options. The dichotomy suggests that people are comfortable with individual stocks, like Nortel Networks (NT), but cautious about the stock market. The option market's fear gauge, the Chicago Board Options Exchange Market Volatility Index, or VIX, rose 0.32 to 27.74. (SMS) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Merrill says benchmarking AT&T (T) component parts against relevant publicly traded companies as of Monday would give equity value of $40 a share. As an aside, the brokerage firm notes that Qwest (Q) has rescheduled its earnings report from Wednesday to Tuesday, possibly to avoid intense focus that would be on A&T if talked-about developments are announced with AT&T earnings. (TG) 

 9:46 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is extending losses as contract heads to overnight lows. Floor trader sees support at the electronic trade low of 3450, with further support at 3420. Resistance seen around 3525. He says Dec. Nasdaq isn't quite finished with its weakness, suggesting the rest of Oct. will be key for the contract's direction in the end of the year. (DMC) 

 9:41 (Dow Jones) Medical-device analysts are trying to read the tea leaves about the future of the stent market following big medical conference in Washington. SG Cowen analysts Matt Dodds and Scott Wilkin say Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and Medtronic (MDT) are in a better position going into 2001 than Guidant (GDT) and Boston Scientific (BSX). (RJH) 

 9:39 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open unchanged to 10 cents a barrel higher, on follow through from Fri.'s sharp gains. Comments by OPEC President and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson that the producer group could increase output by 500,000 b/d later this month as the price-band mechanism is triggered are seen bearish for Dec. crude. The mechanism calls for the increase after the OPEC basket price holds above $28/bbl for more than 20 days. Fri. was Day 15. (MXF) 

 9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq are weaker in early trade, finding selling pressure after a weaker overnight trade. Focus for markets are on earnings, technicals and oil prices. Floor trader says markets have a little more downside for the short-term, but doesn't see a big sell off. (DMC) 

 9:23 (Dow Jones) (Dow Jones) Why can't Nasdaq rally to 4500 or 5000? Arnhold's John Roque gives four reasons: Internet stocks would have to revisit performance of late '99/early '00, not enough tech names have have made trading bases, oil has yet to correct, and the Fed isn't likely to start easing anytime soon. (TG) 

 9:13 (Dow Jones) Richard McGinn is out as Lucent's (LU) chairman and chief executive; Henry Schacht returns to those positions he held with the company from 1995 to 1997. Lucent is also lowering guidance for first quarter numbers and has moved up the release for its fourth quarter earnings to the close today. Stock off 5% in pre-market trading. (LF) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Does Jack Welch's now-delayed retirement say something about General Electric's (GE) management depth? Welch has been saying for months that GE will be just fine without him, given the strong executive team he's put in place. Yet, with the Honeywell (HON) deal, he's now saying he'll stick around to see things through. (RJH) 

 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03ztv




 MARKET TALK: Rate Hikes Hurting Profits, But Not Inflation 

1,434 words
23 October 2000
15:28
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 10:27 (Dow Jones) Recent rate tightenings have only crimped profits and growth, not decreased inflationary pressure, according to Renaissance Capital, which runs the IPO Plus Aftermarket Fund. As a result, investors have been "forced to fly through turbulence because of the Fed's zeal to bring the economy in for a soft landing," the firm says. "Unfortunately, there were not enough air-sickness bags to go around." (RJH) 

 10:25 (Dow Jones) Gruntal's Joe Battipaglia says worst of correction over. Year-end targets remain 4300 on Nasdaq, 1625 on S&P 500, and 12500 on DJIA. If he's right, both DJIA and Nasdaq will have advanced by more than 20% in last 2 1/2 months of year. (TG) 

 10:11 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to weaken, falling to an intraday low of 108.35. EUR/JPY has steadied just under 91, now at 90.98. (RTB) 

 10:08 (Dow Jones) Stocks holding on to moderate gains. DJIA up 68 at 10295, Nasdaq adds 20 to 3503, and S&P 500 gains 3 to 1399. HON and GE moves essentially offsetting each other in DJIA. GE shares, off 5%, are holding up better, on a percentage basis, than UTX shares did when Street thought that co. was buying HON. Semis, drugs look good. Big numbers from 3M help those shares up 6.5%. (TG) 

 10:02 (Dow Jones) Stock mutual funds lost a heavy $9.11 billion in outflows between Tuesday and Thurday, according to TrimTabs.com. But the fund tracker expects large inflows for the Friday-Monday period, given the rally on Thursday and Friday. (YXH) 

 10:00 (Dow Jones) Challenger survey shows pace of announced layoffs is accelerating at a record clip in the Internet sector of the economy. Cuts in the dot-com sector totalled 5,677 in month ending Oct. 23, up 18% from Sept.'s 4,805, the outplacement firm said. (JNP) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Traders and money managers are aggressively trafficking in bullish call options and bearish index put options. The dichotomy suggests that people are comfortable with individual stocks, like Nortel Networks (NT), but cautious about the stock market. The option market's fear gauge, the Chicago Board Options Exchange Market Volatility Index, or VIX, rose 0.32 to 27.74. (SMS) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Merrill says benchmarking AT&T (T) component parts against relevant publicly traded companies as of Monday would give equity value of $40 a share. As an aside, the brokerage firm notes that Qwest (Q) has rescheduled its earnings report from Wednesday to Tuesday, possibly to avoid intense focus that would be on A&T if talked-about developments are announced with AT&T earnings. (TG) 

 9:46 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is extending losses as contract heads to overnight lows. Floor trader sees support at the electronic trade low of 3450, with further support at 3420. Resistance seen around 3525. He says Dec. Nasdaq isn't quite finished with its weakness, suggesting the rest of Oct. will be key for the contract's direction in the end of the year. (DMC) 

 9:41 (Dow Jones) Medical-device analysts are trying to read the tea leaves about the future of the stent market following big medical conference in Washington. SG Cowen analysts Matt Dodds and Scott Wilkin say Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and Medtronic (MDT) are in a better position going into 2001 than Guidant (GDT) and Boston Scientific (BSX). (RJH) 

 9:39 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open unchanged to 10 cents a barrel higher, on follow through from Fri.'s sharp gains. Comments by OPEC President and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson that the producer group could increase output by 500,000 b/d later this month as the price-band mechanism is triggered are seen bearish for Dec. crude. The mechanism calls for the increase after the OPEC basket price holds above $28/bbl for more than 20 days. Fri. was Day 15. (MXF) 

 9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq are weaker in early trade, finding selling pressure after a weaker overnight trade. Focus for markets are on earnings, technicals and oil prices. Floor trader says markets have a little more downside for the short-term, but doesn't see a big sell off. (DMC) 

 9:23 (Dow Jones) (Dow Jones) Why can't Nasdaq rally to 4500 or 5000? Arnhold's John Roque gives four reasons: Internet stocks would have to revisit performance of late '99/early '00, not enough tech names have have made trading bases, oil has yet to correct, and the Fed isn't likely to start easing anytime soon. (TG) 

 9:13 (Dow Jones) Richard McGinn is out as Lucent's (LU) chairman and chief executive; Henry Schacht returns to those positions he held with the company from 1995 to 1997. Lucent is also lowering guidance for first quarter numbers and has moved up the release for its fourth quarter earnings to the close today. Stock off 5% in pre-market trading. (LF) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Does Jack Welch's now-delayed retirement say something about General Electric's (GE) management depth? Welch has been saying for months that GE will be just fine without him, given the strong executive team he's put in place. Yet, with the Honeywell (HON) deal, he's now saying he'll stick around to see things through. (RJH) 

 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zts




 MARKET TALK: Battipaglia Still Bullish, Worst Behind Us 

1,364 words
23 October 2000
15:25
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 10:25 (Dow Jones) Gruntal's Joe Battipaglia says worst of correction over. Year-end targets remain 4300 on Nasdaq, 1625 on S&P 500, and 12500 on DJIA. If he's right, both DJIA and Nasdaq will have advanced by more than 20% in last 2 1/2 months of year. (TG) 

 10:11 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to weaken, falling to an intraday low of 108.35. EUR/JPY has steadied just under 91, now at 90.98. (RTB) 

 10:08 (Dow Jones) Stocks holding on to moderate gains. DJIA up 68 at 10295, Nasdaq adds 20 to 3503, and S&P 500 gains 3 to 1399. HON and GE moves essentially offsetting each other in DJIA. GE shares, off 5%, are holding up better, on a percentage basis, than UTX shares did when Street thought that co. was buying HON. Semis, drugs look good. Big numbers from 3M help those shares up 6.5%. (TG) 

 10:02 (Dow Jones) Stock mutual funds lost a heavy $9.11 billion in outflows between Tuesday and Thurday, according to TrimTabs.com. But the fund tracker expects large inflows for the Friday-Monday period, given the rally on Thursday and Friday. (YXH) 

 10:00 (Dow Jones) Challenger survey shows pace of announced layoffs is accelerating at a record clip in the Internet sector of the economy. Cuts in the dot-com sector totalled 5,677 in month ending Oct. 23, up 18% from Sept.'s 4,805, the outplacement firm said. (JNP) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Traders and money managers are aggressively trafficking in bullish call options and bearish index put options. The dichotomy suggests that people are comfortable with individual stocks, like Nortel Networks (NT), but cautious about the stock market. The option market's fear gauge, the Chicago Board Options Exchange Market Volatility Index, or VIX, rose 0.32 to 27.74. (SMS) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Merrill says benchmarking AT&T (T) component parts against relevant publicly traded companies as of Monday would give equity value of $40 a share. As an aside, the brokerage firm notes that Qwest (Q) has rescheduled its earnings report from Wednesday to Tuesday, possibly to avoid intense focus that would be on A&T if talked-about developments are announced with AT&T earnings. (TG) 

 9:46 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is extending losses as contract heads to overnight lows. Floor trader sees support at the electronic trade low of 3450, with further support at 3420. Resistance seen around 3525. He says Dec. Nasdaq isn't quite finished with its weakness, suggesting the rest of Oct. will be key for the contract's direction in the end of the year. (DMC) 

 9:41 (Dow Jones) Medical-device analysts are trying to read the tea leaves about the future of the stent market following big medical conference in Washington. SG Cowen analysts Matt Dodds and Scott Wilkin say Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and Medtronic (MDT) are in a better position going into 2001 than Guidant (GDT) and Boston Scientific (BSX). (RJH) 

 9:39 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open unchanged to 10 cents a barrel higher, on follow through from Fri.'s sharp gains. Comments by OPEC President and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson that the producer group could increase output by 500,000 b/d later this month as the price-band mechanism is triggered are seen bearish for Dec. crude. The mechanism calls for the increase after the OPEC basket price holds above $28/bbl for more than 20 days. Fri. was Day 15. (MXF) 

 9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq are weaker in early trade, finding selling pressure after a weaker overnight trade. Focus for markets are on earnings, technicals and oil prices. Floor trader says markets have a little more downside for the short-term, but doesn't see a big sell off. (DMC) 

 9:23 (Dow Jones) (Dow Jones) Why can't Nasdaq rally to 4500 or 5000? Arnhold's John Roque gives four reasons: Internet stocks would have to revisit performance of late '99/early '00, not enough tech names have have made trading bases, oil has yet to correct, and the Fed isn't likely to start easing anytime soon. (TG) 

 9:13 (Dow Jones) Richard McGinn is out as Lucent's (LU) chairman and chief executive; Henry Schacht returns to those positions he held with the company from 1995 to 1997. Lucent is also lowering guidance for first quarter numbers and has moved up the release for its fourth quarter earnings to the close today. Stock off 5% in pre-market trading. (LF) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Does Jack Welch's now-delayed retirement say something about General Electric's (GE) management depth? Welch has been saying for months that GE will be just fine without him, given the strong executive team he's put in place. Yet, with the Honeywell (HON) deal, he's now saying he'll stick around to see things through. (RJH) 

 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03ztq




 MARKET TALK: More Softness In USD/JPY 

1,309 words
23 October 2000
15:12
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 10:11 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to weaken, falling to an intraday low of 108.35. EUR/JPY has steadied just under 91, now at 90.98. (RTB) 

 10:08 (Dow Jones) Stocks holding on to moderate gains. DJIA up 68 at 10295, Nasdaq adds 20 to 3503, and S&P 500 gains 3 to 1399. HON and GE moves essentially offsetting each other in DJIA. GE shares, off 5%, are holding up better, on a percentage basis, than UTX shares did when Street thought that co. was buying HON. Semis, drugs look good. Big numbers from 3M help those shares up 6.5%. (TG) 

 10:02 (Dow Jones) Stock mutual funds lost a heavy $9.11 billion in outflows between Tuesday and Thurday, according to TrimTabs.com. But the fund tracker expects large inflows for the Friday-Monday period, given the rally on Thursday and Friday. (YXH) 

 10:00 (Dow Jones) Challenger survey shows pace of announced layoffs is accelerating at a record clip in the Internet sector of the economy. Cuts in the dot-com sector totalled 5,677 in month ending Oct. 23, up 18% from Sept.'s 4,805, the outplacement firm said. (JNP) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Traders and money managers are aggressively trafficking in bullish call options and bearish index put options. The dichotomy suggests that people are comfortable with individual stocks, like Nortel Networks (NT), but cautious about the stock market. The option market's fear gauge, the Chicago Board Options Exchange Market Volatility Index, or VIX, rose 0.32 to 27.74. (SMS) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Merrill says benchmarking AT&T (T) component parts against relevant publicly traded companies as of Monday would give equity value of $40 a share. As an aside, the brokerage firm notes that Qwest (Q) has rescheduled its earnings report from Wednesday to Tuesday, possibly to avoid intense focus that would be on A&T if talked-about developments are announced with AT&T earnings. (TG) 

 9:46 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is extending losses as contract heads to overnight lows. Floor trader sees support at the electronic trade low of 3450, with further support at 3420. Resistance seen around 3525. He says Dec. Nasdaq isn't quite finished with its weakness, suggesting the rest of Oct. will be key for the contract's direction in the end of the year. (DMC) 

 9:41 (Dow Jones) Medical-device analysts are trying to read the tea leaves about the future of the stent market following big medical conference in Washington. SG Cowen analysts Matt Dodds and Scott Wilkin say Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and Medtronic (MDT) are in a better position going into 2001 than Guidant (GDT) and Boston Scientific (BSX). (RJH) 

 9:39 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open unchanged to 10 cents a barrel higher, on follow through from Fri.'s sharp gains. Comments by OPEC President and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson that the producer group could increase output by 500,000 b/d later this month as the price-band mechanism is triggered are seen bearish for Dec. crude. The mechanism calls for the increase after the OPEC basket price holds above $28/bbl for more than 20 days. Fri. was Day 15. (MXF) 

 9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq are weaker in early trade, finding selling pressure after a weaker overnight trade. Focus for markets are on earnings, technicals and oil prices. Floor trader says markets have a little more downside for the short-term, but doesn't see a big sell off. (DMC) 

 9:23 (Dow Jones) (Dow Jones) Why can't Nasdaq rally to 4500 or 5000? Arnhold's John Roque gives four reasons: Internet stocks would have to revisit performance of late '99/early '00, not enough tech names have have made trading bases, oil has yet to correct, and the Fed isn't likely to start easing anytime soon. (TG) 

 9:13 (Dow Jones) Richard McGinn is out as Lucent's (LU) chairman and chief executive; Henry Schacht returns to those positions he held with the company from 1995 to 1997. Lucent is also lowering guidance for first quarter numbers and has moved up the release for its fourth quarter earnings to the close today. Stock off 5% in pre-market trading. (LF) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Does Jack Welch's now-delayed retirement say something about General Electric's (GE) management depth? Welch has been saying for months that GE will be just fine without him, given the strong executive team he's put in place. Yet, with the Honeywell (HON) deal, he's now saying he'll stick around to see things through. (RJH) 

 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03ztg




 MARKET TALK: Stocks Holding Moderate Gains 

1,279 words
23 October 2000
15:10
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 10:08 (Dow Jones) Stocks holding on to moderate gains. DJIA up 68 at 10295, Nasdaq adds 20 to 3503, and S&P 500 gains 3 to 1399. HON and GE moves essentially offsetting each other in DJIA. GE shares, off 5%, are holding up better, on a percentage basis, than UTX shares did when Street thought that co. was buying HON. Semis, drugs look good. Big numbers from 3M help those shares up 6.5%. (TG) 

 10:02 (Dow Jones) Stock mutual funds lost a heavy $9.11 billion in outflows between Tuesday and Thurday, according to TrimTabs.com. But the fund tracker expects large inflows for the Friday-Monday period, given the rally on Thursday and Friday. (YXH) 

 10:00 (Dow Jones) Challenger survey shows pace of announced layoffs is accelerating at a record clip in the Internet sector of the economy. Cuts in the dot-com sector totalled 5,677 in month ending Oct. 23, up 18% from Sept.'s 4,805, the outplacement firm said. (JNP) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Traders and money managers are aggressively trafficking in bullish call options and bearish index put options. The dichotomy suggests that people are comfortable with individual stocks, like Nortel Networks (NT), but cautious about the stock market. The option market's fear gauge, the Chicago Board Options Exchange Market Volatility Index, or VIX, rose 0.32 to 27.74. (SMS) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Merrill says benchmarking AT&T (T) component parts against relevant publicly traded companies as of Monday would give equity value of $40 a share. As an aside, the brokerage firm notes that Qwest (Q) has rescheduled its earnings report from Wednesday to Tuesday, possibly to avoid intense focus that would be on A&T if talked-about developments are announced with AT&T earnings. (TG) 

 9:46 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is extending losses as contract heads to overnight lows. Floor trader sees support at the electronic trade low of 3450, with further support at 3420. Resistance seen around 3525. He says Dec. Nasdaq isn't quite finished with its weakness, suggesting the rest of Oct. will be key for the contract's direction in the end of the year. (DMC) 

 9:41 (Dow Jones) Medical-device analysts are trying to read the tea leaves about the future of the stent market following big medical conference in Washington. SG Cowen analysts Matt Dodds and Scott Wilkin say Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and Medtronic (MDT) are in a better position going into 2001 than Guidant (GDT) and Boston Scientific (BSX). (RJH) 

 9:39 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open unchanged to 10 cents a barrel higher, on follow through from Fri.'s sharp gains. Comments by OPEC President and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson that the producer group could increase output by 500,000 b/d later this month as the price-band mechanism is triggered are seen bearish for Dec. crude. The mechanism calls for the increase after the OPEC basket price holds above $28/bbl for more than 20 days. Fri. was Day 15. (MXF) 

 9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq are weaker in early trade, finding selling pressure after a weaker overnight trade. Focus for markets are on earnings, technicals and oil prices. Floor trader says markets have a little more downside for the short-term, but doesn't see a big sell off. (DMC) 

 9:23 (Dow Jones) (Dow Jones) Why can't Nasdaq rally to 4500 or 5000? Arnhold's John Roque gives four reasons: Internet stocks would have to revisit performance of late '99/early '00, not enough tech names have have made trading bases, oil has yet to correct, and the Fed isn't likely to start easing anytime soon. (TG) 

 9:13 (Dow Jones) Richard McGinn is out as Lucent's (LU) chairman and chief executive; Henry Schacht returns to those positions he held with the company from 1995 to 1997. Lucent is also lowering guidance for first quarter numbers and has moved up the release for its fourth quarter earnings to the close today. Stock off 5% in pre-market trading. (LF) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Does Jack Welch's now-delayed retirement say something about General Electric's (GE) management depth? Welch has been saying for months that GE will be just fine without him, given the strong executive team he's put in place. Yet, with the Honeywell (HON) deal, he's now saying he'll stick around to see things through. (RJH) 

 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03ztd




 MARKET TALK: Lots Of Fund Outflows, But It May Come Back 

1,206 words
23 October 2000
15:03
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 10:02 (Dow Jones) Stock mutual funds lost a heavy $9.11 billion in outflows between Tuesday and Thurday, according to TrimTabs.com. But the fund tracker expects large inflows for the Friday-Monday period, given the rally on Thursday and Friday. (YXH) 

 10:00 (Dow Jones) Challenger survey shows pace of announced layoffs is accelerating at a record clip in the Internet sector of the economy. Cuts in the dot-com sector totalled 5,677 in month ending Oct. 23, up 18% from Sept.'s 4,805, the outplacement firm said. (JNP) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Traders and money managers are aggressively trafficking in bullish call options and bearish index put options. The dichotomy suggests that people are comfortable with individual stocks, like Nortel Networks (NT), but cautious about the stock market. The option market's fear gauge, the Chicago Board Options Exchange Market Volatility Index, or VIX, rose 0.32 to 27.74. (SMS) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Merrill says benchmarking AT&T (T) component parts against relevant publicly traded companies as of Monday would give equity value of $40 a share. As an aside, the brokerage firm notes that Qwest (Q) has rescheduled its earnings report from Wednesday to Tuesday, possibly to avoid intense focus that would be on A&T if talked-about developments are announced with AT&T earnings. (TG) 

 9:46 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is extending losses as contract heads to overnight lows. Floor trader sees support at the electronic trade low of 3450, with further support at 3420. Resistance seen around 3525. He says Dec. Nasdaq isn't quite finished with its weakness, suggesting the rest of Oct. will be key for the contract's direction in the end of the year. (DMC) 

 9:41 (Dow Jones) Medical-device analysts are trying to read the tea leaves about the future of the stent market following big medical conference in Washington. SG Cowen analysts Matt Dodds and Scott Wilkin say Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and Medtronic (MDT) are in a better position going into 2001 than Guidant (GDT) and Boston Scientific (BSX). (RJH) 

 9:39 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open unchanged to 10 cents a barrel higher, on follow through from Fri.'s sharp gains. Comments by OPEC President and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson that the producer group could increase output by 500,000 b/d later this month as the price-band mechanism is triggered are seen bearish for Dec. crude. The mechanism calls for the increase after the OPEC basket price holds above $28/bbl for more than 20 days. Fri. was Day 15. (MXF) 

 9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq are weaker in early trade, finding selling pressure after a weaker overnight trade. Focus for markets are on earnings, technicals and oil prices. Floor trader says markets have a little more downside for the short-term, but doesn't see a big sell off. (DMC) 

 9:23 (Dow Jones) (Dow Jones) Why can't Nasdaq rally to 4500 or 5000? Arnhold's John Roque gives four reasons: Internet stocks would have to revisit performance of late '99/early '00, not enough tech names have have made trading bases, oil has yet to correct, and the Fed isn't likely to start easing anytime soon. (TG) 

 9:13 (Dow Jones) Richard McGinn is out as Lucent's (LU) chairman and chief executive; Henry Schacht returns to those positions he held with the company from 1995 to 1997. Lucent is also lowering guidance for first quarter numbers and has moved up the release for its fourth quarter earnings to the close today. Stock off 5% in pre-market trading. (LF) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Does Jack Welch's now-delayed retirement say something about General Electric's (GE) management depth? Welch has been saying for months that GE will be just fine without him, given the strong executive team he's put in place. Yet, with the Honeywell (HON) deal, he's now saying he'll stick around to see things through. (RJH) 

 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zt2




 MARKET TALK: Pace Of Cutbacks In Dot-Com Sector Quicken 

1,162 words
23 October 2000
15:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 10:00 (Dow Jones) Challenger survey shows pace of announced layoffs is accelerating at a record clip in the Internet sector of the economy. Cuts in the dot-com sector totalled 5,677 in month ending Oct. 23, up 18% from Sept.'s 4,805, the outplacement firm said. (JNP) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Traders and money managers are aggressively trafficking in bullish call options and bearish index put options. The dichotomy suggests that people are comfortable with individual stocks, like Nortel Networks (NT), but cautious about the stock market. The option market's fear gauge, the Chicago Board Options Exchange Market Volatility Index, or VIX, rose 0.32 to 27.74. (SMS) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Merrill says benchmarking AT&T (T) component parts against relevant publicly traded companies as of Monday would give equity value of $40 a share. As an aside, the brokerage firm notes that Qwest (Q) has rescheduled its earnings report from Wednesday to Tuesday, possibly to avoid intense focus that would be on A&T if talked-about developments are announced with AT&T earnings. (TG) 

 9:46 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is extending losses as contract heads to overnight lows. Floor trader sees support at the electronic trade low of 3450, with further support at 3420. Resistance seen around 3525. He says Dec. Nasdaq isn't quite finished with its weakness, suggesting the rest of Oct. will be key for the contract's direction in the end of the year. (DMC) 

 9:41 (Dow Jones) Medical-device analysts are trying to read the tea leaves about the future of the stent market following big medical conference in Washington. SG Cowen analysts Matt Dodds and Scott Wilkin say Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and Medtronic (MDT) are in a better position going into 2001 than Guidant (GDT) and Boston Scientific (BSX). (RJH) 

 9:39 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open unchanged to 10 cents a barrel higher, on follow through from Fri.'s sharp gains. Comments by OPEC President and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson that the producer group could increase output by 500,000 b/d later this month as the price-band mechanism is triggered are seen bearish for Dec. crude. The mechanism calls for the increase after the OPEC basket price holds above $28/bbl for more than 20 days. Fri. was Day 15. (MXF) 

 9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq are weaker in early trade, finding selling pressure after a weaker overnight trade. Focus for markets are on earnings, technicals and oil prices. Floor trader says markets have a little more downside for the short-term, but doesn't see a big sell off. (DMC) 

 9:23 (Dow Jones) (Dow Jones) Why can't Nasdaq rally to 4500 or 5000? Arnhold's John Roque gives four reasons: Internet stocks would have to revisit performance of late '99/early '00, not enough tech names have have made trading bases, oil has yet to correct, and the Fed isn't likely to start easing anytime soon. (TG) 

 9:13 (Dow Jones) Richard McGinn is out as Lucent's (LU) chairman and chief executive; Henry Schacht returns to those positions he held with the company from 1995 to 1997. Lucent is also lowering guidance for first quarter numbers and has moved up the release for its fourth quarter earnings to the close today. Stock off 5% in pre-market trading. (LF) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Does Jack Welch's now-delayed retirement say something about General Electric's (GE) management depth? Welch has been saying for months that GE will be just fine without him, given the strong executive team he's put in place. Yet, with the Honeywell (HON) deal, he's now saying he'll stick around to see things through. (RJH) 

 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zsv




 MARKET TALK: Traders, PMs Like Stocks, But Wary Of Market 

1,112 words
23 October 2000
14:57
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 9:55 (Dow Jones) Traders and money managers are aggressively trafficking in bullish call options and bearish index put options. The dichotomy suggests that people are comfortable with individual stocks, like Nortel Networks (NT), but cautious about the stock market. The option market's fear gauge, the Chicago Board Options Exchange Market Volatility Index, or VIX, rose 0.32 to 27.74. (SMS) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Merrill says benchmarking AT&T (T) component parts against relevant publicly traded companies as of Monday would give equity value of $40 a share. As an aside, the brokerage firm notes that Qwest (Q) has rescheduled its earnings report from Wednesday to Tuesday, possibly to avoid intense focus that would be on A&T if talked-about developments are announced with AT&T earnings. (TG) 

 9:46 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is extending losses as contract heads to overnight lows. Floor trader sees support at the electronic trade low of 3450, with further support at 3420. Resistance seen around 3525. He says Dec. Nasdaq isn't quite finished with its weakness, suggesting the rest of Oct. will be key for the contract's direction in the end of the year. (DMC) 

 9:41 (Dow Jones) Medical-device analysts are trying to read the tea leaves about the future of the stent market following big medical conference in Washington. SG Cowen analysts Matt Dodds and Scott Wilkin say Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and Medtronic (MDT) are in a better position going into 2001 than Guidant (GDT) and Boston Scientific (BSX). (RJH) 

 9:39 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open unchanged to 10 cents a barrel higher, on follow through from Fri.'s sharp gains. Comments by OPEC President and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson that the producer group could increase output by 500,000 b/d later this month as the price-band mechanism is triggered are seen bearish for Dec. crude. The mechanism calls for the increase after the OPEC basket price holds above $28/bbl for more than 20 days. Fri. was Day 15. (MXF) 

 9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq are weaker in early trade, finding selling pressure after a weaker overnight trade. Focus for markets are on earnings, technicals and oil prices. Floor trader says markets have a little more downside for the short-term, but doesn't see a big sell off. (DMC) 

 9:23 (Dow Jones) (Dow Jones) Why can't Nasdaq rally to 4500 or 5000? Arnhold's John Roque gives four reasons: Internet stocks would have to revisit performance of late '99/early '00, not enough tech names have have made trading bases, oil has yet to correct, and the Fed isn't likely to start easing anytime soon. (TG) 

 9:13 (Dow Jones) Richard McGinn is out as Lucent's (LU) chairman and chief executive; Henry Schacht returns to those positions he held with the company from 1995 to 1997. Lucent is also lowering guidance for first quarter numbers and has moved up the release for its fourth quarter earnings to the close today. Stock off 5% in pre-market trading. (LF) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Does Jack Welch's now-delayed retirement say something about General Electric's (GE) management depth? Welch has been saying for months that GE will be just fine without him, given the strong executive team he's put in place. Yet, with the Honeywell (HON) deal, he's now saying he'll stick around to see things through. (RJH) 

 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zsl


Metro Business
SOME EXECUTIVES BUYING DESPITE A PUNISHING MARKET

Paul Elliott; First Call/Thomson Financial   
520 words
23 October 2000
The Richmond Times-Dispatch
RCHD
City
D-14
English
Copyright 2000, Media General. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

In a market as punishing as this, it is all too easy to fixate on the negative. Yes, restricted stock sales have been on the heavy side, and, yes, insiders have been selling at the lows a bit more than one would ordinarily like to see. At the same time, executives at select companies continue to show their support for their company's shares by putting their money at risk, and, in some cases, insiders have been downright persistent.

Consider those at Citrix Systems Inc. (ticker symbol CTXS), a company that has struggled in a downward spiral since the beginning of March. With investors already uneasy regarding tech stocks, Citrix Systems stoked the fire in June, warning that second-quarter numbers would not meet estimates. Prior to the sell-off, insiders had been avid profit takers, but their behavior has shifted dramatically.

In fact, back in August, we noticed six insiders acquiring more than 250,000 CTXS shares through a combination of options exercises and open-market purchases. And while analysts expect third-quarter numbers to be in line with estimates, insiders have continued to accumulate shares at the depressed levels.

Recently three insiders acquired 62,263 shares, including 35,000 shares on the open market at $14.56 to $14.63 per share. Among the buyers, Scott Kinnear, the company's vice president of product development exercised options to acquire 15,976 shares. Director Kevin Compton's 35,000-share purchase was his first since filing as an insider back in 1995, while Leslie Pendergrast, vice president of human resources, exercised to acquire 11,287 shares.

Notably, Kinnear accumulated shares in April and May as well, as CTXS traded down from $70 to $40. Not only was he willing to hold on to the underlying stock as Citrix faltered, he acquired more shares at the bottom. Analysts, though undoubtedly just as weary, also hold out hope that Citrix Systems' transformation into an enterprise software company will be a success. If nothing else, at least the company's executives view the current levels a buying opportunity.

Investors less inclined to heroism might want to take a look at Energizer Holdings Inc. (ENR), where insiders likewise continue to buy shares. In fact, since we covered significant insider accumulation at the recent Ralston Purina spinoff in June, the stock has inched some 15 percent higher. What is interesting is that insiders are again turning to the open market to pick up shares despite the higher prices.

Unfortunately, Wall Street seems a bit less optimistic. Although Energizer has closed the market share gap on industry leader Duracell, the trend toward making batteries commodities continues to pressure margins. Meanwhile, a weak Euro continues to cut severely into overseas profits for all.

Energizer insiders are apparently looking at the bright side, however. From Aug. 4 through early September, nine insiders bought 142,115 shares on the open market at prices ranging from $19.50 to $22.25 per share.

No trades of local interest were reported last week.

INSIDER PERISCOPE

Document RCHD000020111212dwan01b3p


 National Semi Issues Proft Warning 

215 words
23 October 2000
08:00
CMP TechWeb
CMPT
English
 Copyright 2000 CMP Media Inc. 

 SANTA CLARA, Calif. -- Citing a shortfall in sales in the PC and wireless sectors, National Semiconductor Corp. on Monday was the latest company to issue a sales and profit warning. 

 The Santa Clara, Calif., company announced that sales and earnings for its second quarter of fiscal 2001, ending Nov. 26, and the third fiscal quarter, ending Feb. 25, 2001, might be below those of the recently completed first quarter. 

 During the first quarter of fiscal 2001, National (stock: NSM) reported earnings of 76 cents per share on sales of $641 million, excluding the effects of one-time charges. 

 The company now expects second-quarter sales to decline between 6 percent to 8 percent from the first quarter and to resume sequential growth in the third quarter. 

 This might result in a drop of about 2.5 percent in gross margin from the 53 percent in the first quarter and a corresponding decline in earnings per share on unchanged operating expenses from the company's previous outlook. 

 "Shipments in the current quarter will be impacted by inventory corrections being made by some of our customers in the mobile phone market," the company said in a statement. "Bookings for personal computer products have strengthened, but at a lower rate than seasonally expected." 

Document cmpt000020010804dwan0021o




 TECH WEEK IN REVIEW: Computer Earnings Keep Waters Muddy 

 By Jason Fry and Kristin Hussey 
2,584 words
21 October 2000
01:19
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WSJ.com 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Earnings season is always a time for investors and analysts to ponder the tea leaves, but this time around the would-be oracles have gone about their job with particular care - for that, blame the triple threat of the Nasdaq's April meltdown, worries about sluggish personal-computer growth and the slump in online advertising. 

 The week brought plenty of earnings in the PC world - giants International Business Machines Corp. (IBM), Microsoft Corp. (MSFT), Apple Computer Inc. (AAPL), Intel Corp. (INTC) and Sun Microsystems Inc. (SUNW) all reported. But patterns proved elusive. In some cases, companies' ongoing issues dominated the numbers and the resulting discussion; in others, investors and analysts discovered little that they didn't already know. 

 Warnings of sluggish PC growth have cast a pall over the computer industry all year and intensified in recent weeks, with the big blow being Dell Computer Corp.'s (DELL) announcement early this month that revenue growth will fall considerably shy of analysts' estimates. But earnings statements from Microsoft, IBM and Apple didn't clarify things to the extent analysts and investors would have liked. 

 Microsoft posted higher-than-expected revenue and earnings for the first fiscal quarter; perhaps even more significantly, the traditionally cautious software giant didn't take the opportunity to poor-mouth coming quarters, sticking to its revenue forecast for the quarter ending in December. Given Microsoft's reliance on PC sales as the driver bar none for software revenues, that was reassuring. On the other hand, a lot of the upside Microsoft saw came from gains on investments, and on a year-over-year basis revenue from the key Office software suite actually declined. 

 Apple's news, on the surface, was obviously bad: The PC maker missed already-lowered expectations and cut profit targets for the fiscal year as it girded itself to tackle problems with built-up inventory. For investors used to a run of good quarters from the revitalized company, both September's warning and this week's results were deja vu all over again: Among other things, Apple said consumers saw its much-praised Power Mac G4 Cubes as too expensive, which had reminded some of Jean-Louis Gassee's infamous sneer that "we make Hondas, not Yugos." The company also blamed a change in a sales system for a slowdown in sales to schools and universities. But the company isn't ignoring the problems: Chief Executive Steve Jobs said Apple would offer $300 rebates on the G4 Cubes. Are Apple's problems more internal than external? Time will tell. 

 As for Intel, it managed to top estimates - but the results only wound up matching what analysts had expected before the chip giant warned of a revenue shortfall last month. To make matters worse, Intel issued a fourth-quarter revenue forecast that was widely seen as conservative. Did that have something to do with fears of waning PC sales? Absolutely - but it was also seemed as determination to avoid further embarrassment by having to lower guidance once again. Nor was that the only internal factor at work: Intel had spent much of the year striving to make enough processors to meet demand, only to see that demand slow once it did catch up. And Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) - perennially the New York Mets to Intel's Atlanta Braves - is once again snatching market share away from the chip giant. 

 And then there was Sun, which came out with the kind of quarter companies dream about even in the best of times. All Sun managed to do was report 60% revenue growth and earnings that topped even the bullish forecasts, a clear indication that the maker of high-end computers is increasing its lead on its competitors. 

 Granted, Sun isn't a PC maker. But the news was still galling for its rivals, which compete with Sun on a number of fronts, from servers themselves (IBM) to the software that runs them (Microsoft). But even Sun didn't have a perfect day: The company jumped the gun by accidentally posting a headline about its earnings on its Web site, confusing investors. In a week in which no earnings release seemed to come without enough contradictory information to keep the waters muddy, that made perfect sense. 

 Hardware and Software 

 Xerox Corp. (XRX) tapped a $7 billion line of bank credit for the first time after its borrowing was constrained in the commercial paper market. But the company denied being in a cash crunch. Also, Xerox is near announcing a restructuring that could decide whether it remains independent. The firm is in talks to sell its financing arm to GE Capital. 

 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) agreed to purchase Israel's Galileo Technology Ltd. (GALT) in a $2.7 billion stock deal, expanding further into the market for communications chips. 

 Intershop Communications AG (ISHP) confirmed forecasts that it would suffer a loss in the third quarter, after rumors of a profit warning caused a roller-coaster seven days for the company's stock 

 Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) agreed to acquire Allayer Communications, a maker of optical-networking communications chips, for $275.8 million in stock. 

 Handspring Inc. (HAND) is broadening its handheld computer line with two new models, including its first device with a color display. 

 Nortel Networks Corp. (NT) received a $1 billion four-year contract to provide optical-networking gear to Aerie Networks Inc., which is building a 20,000-mile, high-capacity fiber-optic network in the U.S. 

 Sony Corp.'s (SNE) profitability is recovering fast due to strong sales of computers and digital audio-visual equipment, the company's president said. 

 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) agreed to acquire Cais Internet Inc.'s (CAIS) software unit for $170 million in cash and stock. 

 Seagate Technology Inc. (SEG), Veritas Software Corp. (VRTS) and a group of private investors settled lawsuits filed by some Seagate stockholders who thought the price being paid by the investors for Seagate's core disk-drive business was too low. 

 Visteon Corp. (VC) filed suit against Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products NV (LHSP) in a Boston court, charging the Belgian software firm with breach of contract for pulling out of a planned joint venture. Also, Lernout & Hauspie declined to provide securities regulators with the names of investors behind 30 corporate customers that are a key focus of the agency's probe. 

 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) is introducing two new microprocessors, including a chip operating at 1.2 gigahertz that extends AMD's performance lead over rival Intel Corp. (INTC). 

 Fujitsu Ltd.'s (J.FUT) Amdahl unit plans to stop developing mainframes that are compatible with those of market leader IBM, ending a business that stretches back 30 years. 

 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) has bought the garage where the company was founded in 1939, along with the adjoining house, for $1.7 million. 

 Internet and Online 

 America Online Inc. (AOL) and Time Warner Inc. (TWX) are in the "homestretch" of the regulatory process for their merger, Time Warner Chairman Levin said. Separately, Time Warner posted a 75% decline in net income for the third quarter. 

 France Telecom's (FTE) Wanadoo Internet unit has held talks to acquire French online auction leader iBazar Group in an all-stock transaction, according to people familiar with the matter. 

 MP3.com Inc. (MPPP) struck a tentative deal with music publishers to settle a copyright suit and license songs for use in its My.MP3.com service. Its beaten-down stock soared 45% on the news. 

 Eve.com announced that it will shut down. The online beauty retailer plans to lay off most of its 164 employees. 

 Singapore's Soundbuzz Ltd. got the right to sell music downloads by EMI artists, as part of an alliance in which the big record label will take a significant stake in the independent Web company. 

 EBay Inc. (EBAY) is planning a television show that will attempt to translate the Web site's popular auction service into a program for couch potatoes. 

 NBC Internet Inc. (NBCI) agreed to merge its AllBusiness.com service with Bigvine Inc. (www.bigvine.com), forming a new Internet company aimed at small businesses and reducing a financial burden for NBCi. 

 Red Herring Communications said it reduced its work force by 22 employees, or about 6%, to eliminate redundancies between its online and offline publications at the San Francisco media company. 

 3Com Corp. (COMS) said it would begin selling a stand-alone Internet appliance for Web surfing, e-mail and calendar applications, joining a crowded field that includes Gateway Inc. (GTW), Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ) and others. 

 Internet Pictures Corp. (IPIX) cut 20% of its work force, or about 175 jobs, as part of a restructuring plan designed to offset lower revenue expectations. 

 ChamberBiz Inc. replaced its chief executive and laid off most of its staff. The layoffs came just five months after its official launch. 

 GoIndustry.com acquired Karner & Co. for an undisclosed amount, hoping that the traditional auctioneer will bring strength to its year-old online auction business. 

 Google Inc. added Chinese, Korean and Japanese language search options to the search engine's international offerings. 

 AltaVista CEO Schrock resigned from the Web-search company. He will remain an adviser to the company, which recently scaled back its portal ambitions. 

 Borsa Italiana SpA upheld its ban on trading of Freedomland ITN SpA (I.FLI) shares and demanded explanations from the Internet-television group on a financial scandal. 

 Liberty Surf SA (F.LSF) said its chief financial officer, Thierry Louis, has left the French Internet group. 

 French insurer Axa SA (AXA) has found a way to make money on the Internet: The French insurance giant has secured a near-monopoly on insuring lottery sites against jackpot payouts. 

 Germany scrapped plans to tax the personal use of office computers, as it bowed to an outcry from Internet surfers and online companies. 

 Telecommunications and Cable 

 Motorola Inc. (MOT) agreed to license program-guide technology from Gemstar-TV Guide International Inc. (GMST) for its interactive-television efforts. 

 AT&T Corp.'s (T) board plans to meet to discuss a spinoff of the company's consumer long-distance business. 

 Nortel Networks agreed to exchange its 81.25% stake in cable-telephony venture Arris Interactive for $325 million cash and a 46.5% interest in a new publicly traded company. 

 British Telecom PLC (BTY) and AT&T ended talks to merge their business-service units, less than a month after BT confirmed it and AT&T were exploring ways to broaden the divisions. 

 Exodus Communications Inc. (EXDS) shares jumped after it was added to George Gilder's Technology Report of companies positioned to take advantage of Internet growth. The company posted a narrower-than-expected loss for the third quarter. 

 Telstra Corp. (TLS) said it doesn't need to issue bonds to fund its deal with Pacific Century CyberWorks Ltd. (PCW). But Telstra officials said a global bond deal is still an option for Australia's dominant telecommunications company. 

 Initial Public Offerings 

 Verizon Wireless decided to delay its $10 billion initial public offering, citing depressed telecommunications and IPO markets. 

 Reuters Group PLC (RTRSY) said it will list a stake in electronic brokerage-service unit Instinet, but gave no date for the sale. The announcement was expected. 

 Spain's Cableuropa SA pulled its public share offer, citing a volatile market in general and tough times for European cable operators in particular. 

 Technology incubator idealab! withdrew its registration for a planned IPO, the latest sign of the downturn for Web firms. 

 Swisscom AG (SCM) postponed the planned IPO of its Internet unit Bluewin until 2001, citing the recent downturn in technology stocks. 

 Earnings 

 America Online Inc.'s (AOL) net rose 88% in its fiscal first quarter, but a stagnant advertising backlog raised new fears about that critical revenue stream. 

 Ariba Inc. (ARBA) reported a much wider fiscal fourth-quarter net loss, but sales soared more than sevenfold and results from operations topped Wall Street's estimates. 

 BellSouth Corp. (BLS) posted solid results that were slightly higher than forecast due to revenue growth from data lines and wireless service. 

 Commerce One Inc. (CMRC) posted a narrower-than-expected third-quarter operating loss on strong software sales and a boost from an acquisition. Its stock gained Friday. 

 EMC Corp. (EMC) topped analysts' expectations with a 55% surge in net income in the third quarter, continuing torrid growth in a rough period for high technology. 

 EBay Inc. (EBAY) beat third-quarter profit expectations, helped by a 94% increase in revenue at the online auctioneer. 

 Ebookers.com PLC (EBKR) posted a significantly wider pretax loss in the third quarter, but the company's stock rallied on robust sales figures. 

 L.M. Ericsson's (ERICY) profit rose 14% in the third quarter, but losses widened at its mobile-phone unit. The Swedish group also announced a reorganization of production and a $1.34 billion contract from Mobilcom. 

 Exabyte Corp. (EXBT) posted a narrower loss for the third quarter, citing a 12% decline in operating expenses and increased sales of systems that store computer data on tape. 

 GoTo.com Inc. (GOTO) posted a narrower-than-expected loss for the third quarter, amid strong revenue growth at the pay-per-click search provider. 

 Handspring Inc. (HAND) posted a quarterly loss that was narrower than expected amid healthy demand for the company's handheld computers. 

 Homestore.com Inc. (HOMS) posted results that beat expectations, as the online real-estate company reported its first quarterly profit, excluding items. 

 I2 Technologies Inc. (ITWO) said third-quarter earnings nearly tripled before special charges at the business-software developer. 

 MP3.com Inc. (MPPP) reported sharply higher revenue for the third quarter, but a wider net loss, because of costs including copyright litigation against the company. 

 Marimba Inc. (MRBA) reported a third-quarter loss that was in line with a warning the software developer issued earlier this month. 

 Nokia Corp. (NOK) beat earnings expectations for the third quarter. The Finnish company predicted healthy growth for the mobile-handset market through 2001. 

 Philips Electronics NV (PHG) more than doubled its profit for the third quarter, thanks to strong semiconductor sales, despite troubles in mobile phones. 

 SAP AG's (SAP) sales rose 27% in the third quarter to $1.91 billion, just missing analysts' forecasts while the German software maker's net profit beat hopes. 

 Sprint Corp.'s (FON) third-quarter net income rose 7% on strong sales of its data services, but the company continued to show weakness in its core long-distance telephone business, which has been hit hard by industrywide competitive pressures. 

 STMicroelectronics NV (STM) said its net profit more than tripled in the third quarter as sales soared more than 60%. 

 Tellabs Inc. (TLAB) posted a revenue increase of 46.2% for the third quarter, boosted by strong sales of its fiber-optic networking products. 

 Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) said its third-quarter net income rose 69%, including investment gains and special charges, but the chip maker said sales to wireless-phone manufacturers would decrease in the fourth quarter. 

 Online grocer Webvan Group Inc. (WBVN) said its net loss widened to $148 million in the third quarter because of mounting expenses and charges related to its recently completed acquisition of HomeGrocer.com Inc. 

 Write to Jason Fry at jason.fry@wsj.com and Kristin Hussey at kristin.hussey@wsj.com 

Document dj00000020010805dwal03zli




This Week in the Markets
 Financial Post Investing 
 Hard to tell which Canadian firms must heed U.S. law: Check your companies: Fallout from rules could be increased market volatility 

 Scott Adams 
Financial Post
1,076 words
21 October 2000
National Post
FINP
National
C03
English
 (c) National Post 2000. All Rights Reserved. 

 New U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules on selective disclosure take effect on Monday, rules that are designed to prevent companies from disclosing material information to privileged individuals, such as analysts. 

 Wall Street is now wondering if the chill on doling out information to analysts and fund managers might increase market volatility if the market gets too many surprises. It also has some folks wondering if analysts are going to be worth their fat salaries if they lose their privileged status. 

 Companies will have to issue press releases if they disclose material information in meetings or conference calls with analysts. Sounds great for the little guy. 

 Perhaps that will bring an end to events such as when Air Canada (AC/TSE) privately issued an earnings warning to analysts earlier this month (Air Canada has denied it leaked material information to analysts, though they all slashed their earnings estimates the next day and the stock tanked). 

 The Ontario Securities Commission is supposed to already have rules in place that prevent selective disclosure, but not everyone is happy with them and there are questions about whether they need more teeth. 

 Air Canada is listed on the Nasdaq, so will the SEC go after Air Canada and other Canadian companies listed in the United States on selective disclosure? 

 That depends. A Canadian company must follow the SEC disclosure laws only if it has a majority of its shareholders in the U.S.; a majority of its executive officers are U.S. citizens or residents; a majority of its administration is in the U.S.; or a majority of its assets are in the U.S., an SEC spokesperson said. 

 Check your companies. 

 --- 

 SO MUCH FOR THE COMEBACK: Just when the picture brightens for Methanex Corp. (MX/TSE) and it reports a strong third quarter that came in ahead of analysts' expectations, now it's facing downgrades on Bay Street. 

 BMO Nesbitt Burns analyst Edwin Chee cut the stock to "outperform" from "market perform" and the target to $8 from $10.50. 

 Methanol prices have reached a plateau and the company has had to reconfigure its shipping to avoid tariffs in Chile, forcing analysts to trim earnings estimates. 

 --- 

 THUMP, THUMP: That was the sound of investors punishing Cognicase Inc. (COG/TSE) yesterday, as it sank 11.5% after issuing an earnings warning. The e-business integrator expects a loss, excluding foreign exchange gains and goodwill amortization, of 8 cents to 11 cents a diluted share in the fourth quarter, compared to a profit of 30 cents a share last year. The stock hit $11.50 yesterday and is down about 35% this year. 

 --- 

 ATI V. NVIDIA: It looks like Nvidia Corp. (NVDA/NASDAQ) is poised to overtake ATI Technologies Inc. (ATY/TSE) in the market share lead in graphics for desktop computers, Bloomberg News reported this week. ATI's market share was 36% in the second quarter, down from 39%, while Nvidia's share surged to 35% from 12%, according to Mercury Research. Fortunately for ATI, it held a 48% share in the second quarter of the smaller but more profitable notebook computer market, up from 17%. 

 --- 

 JUNK SALE: The corporate bond market has pretty much dried up. Agrium Inc., a Calgary-based fertilizer company, pulled a US$200-million offering because the market is too volatile, Reuters said. A few other companies have also had to pull issues as yields on corporate bonds have soared with the stock market volatility and concerns about corporate profits. 

 Telecom companies, which make up about one third of the US$700-billion high-yield junk bond market, had led the way down. Falling stock prices, falling corporate credit quality, high default rates, waning support from private investors and hedge funds, and tightening lending standards among banks make it difficult, if not impossible, for many junk-rated companies to raise capital or refinance debt. 

 --- 

 GORILLA WATCH: Investors will intensely scrutinize tech giant Nortel Networks Corp.'s third-quarter results to be released on Tuesday, looking for any sign of a slowdown and how Nortel is handling vendor financing. The markets have their shorts in a knot about companies such as Nortel financing equipment purchases by small telecommunications firms. The worry is that these small companies won't be able to pay for the equipment in the long run. See the paragraph above about junk bonds. 

 --- 

 VOLUMES ARE BACK: Trading on the Nasdaq keeps on smoking like never before. Third-quarter share volume surged to 1.58 billion per day, up 56.9% from last year, while the dollar volume totalled US$4.73-trillion, up 96.4% from last year. 

 --- 

 MAKING TRACKS: Thanks, but I'll pass. Alcatel SA issued a tracking stock for its optronics unit yesterday and the market shrugged. The stock closed at US$71 3/8, below the offering price of US$71.95, which was already near the bottom of the offering range. With all the volatility it was a tough week for IPOs, but the market is also nervous about tracking stocks. 

 Alcatel's optronics business is growing annually at a clip of 142%, but the tracking stock has no ownership rights and only follows the intrinsic value of the Alcatel business. At least the tracking stock isn't expensive. It was being valued at about 20-24 times 2000 revenue, which is much cheaper than JDS Uniphase Corp.'s deal to buy SDL Inc. at more than 200 times 1999 revenue, Dow Jones said. 

 --- 

 SCANDINAVIAN HANDSET WARS: Things are humming for Nokia Oyj but not at Ericsson AB. The stocks of both mobile phone makers were hammered in the summer after they had to issue profit warnings because mobile phone sales were slowing. 

 But Nokia reported a stronger than expected third quarter this week, while Ericsson reported a quarter in line with expectations. That led analysts to conclude that Nokia has gained market share in the mobile phone market and that the whole market isn't necessarily slowing. 

 Nokia ADRs (NOK/NYSE) finished the week at US$39 3/16, still about 30% below its peak in July before the warnings. Ericsson (ERICY/NASDAQ) closed the week at US$11 11/16, still 50% below its July peak. 

sadams@nationalpost.com

Document finp000020010806dwal00s8t




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Amid Profit Worries, Investors Pay Closer Attention to Sales 

 THOMAS S. MULLIGAN 
TIMES STAFF WRITER
1,124 words
21 October 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-1
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 NEW YORK -- Midway through another closely watched corporate earnings season, investors continue to punish companies that post disappointing numbers. But this time, a major focus is on revenue growth. 

 Top-line, or revenue, growth obviously is a key determinant of profits, and it also is a leading indicator of the economy's direction. Weakness in third-quarter sales growth across a wide range of industries has helped build the consensus that the U.S. economy is cooling. 

 "The first thing to go is always the top line," said Steven M. Frenkel, market strategist at Ladenburg Thalmann & Co. 

 Some technology firms, including Apple Computer, Conexant Systems and Texas Instruments, have either reported weaker third-quarter sales or warned of sales weakness in the fourth quarter--a strong reason their stocks have been crushed in recent weeks, dragging the broad market lower. 

 Overall, some degree of slowing sales is welcome on Wall Street, given the market's fear of inflation and the Federal Reserve. But when it comes to individual companies, investors have shown they are intolerant of disappointment--as retailer Circuit City demonstrated Friday, when it warned that poor sales would mean a third-quarter loss. 

 So far, with about half of the blue chip Standard & Poor's 500 index companies reporting earnings, third-quarter results are up an average of 16.4% from a year ago, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Energy, technology and health-care companies have posted the strongest results. 

 But S&P 500 earnings growth is down from 21.6% in the second quarter. And in a sign that analysts expect the slowdown to continue, Wall Street is now projecting earnings growth of 13.9% in the fourth quarter, according to First Call. 

 As sales weaken, more companies have begun cutting costs aggressively to try to bolster profits. 

 Among big industrial firms, Textron, Ingersoll-Rand and Georgia-Pacific recently announced major layoffs and plant closings as sales have skidded and their stocks languish near multiyear lows. 

 The Chicago outplacement firm of Challenger Gray & Christmas said announced layoffs in the third quarter picked up sharply from the moderate levels of the first half of the year. Nearly 170,000 job cuts were announced from July through September, compared with only 81,000 from April through June. Year-to-date through September, however, layoffs are down 30% from last year. 

 "When business drops nowadays, companies don't wait," Chief Executive John Challenger said Friday. "They pacify Wall Street by showing they're taking action to get their costs in line." 

 Indeed, the cost side of the equation is being scrutinized by investors as critically as sales growth. The rising costs of oil, wages and employee benefits are showing up in many earnings reports. 

 Home Depot shares dropped 29% on Oct. 12 after the company warned that its profit would fall short of expectations in the second half of the year, partly because the home-improvement retailer was getting squeezed by higher energy costs. 

 "Eighty percent of U.S. companies transport by truck," said Tony Crescenzi, bond-market strategist at Miller Tabak Hirsch & Co. in New York. "Whether you sell paper or dog food, you're going to get charged more." 

 Crescenzi was alarmed recently when the California Public Employees' Retirement System had to swallow a 9% increase in health-insurance rates. 

 "There's a bit of a stagflation feel to the numbers," Crescenzi said, raising the specter of the low-growth, high-inflation misery that dogged the U.S. economy in the mid-1970s. 

 At the same time, however, Crescenzi noted that the economy is in much better shape than it was in 1989, when it was on the brink of the last recession. 

 Some stock market watchers believe that the bounce-back in the last three trading sessions of this week may signal not only a turn in the market, but that investors are coming back to the view that an economic soft landing is more likely than recession, generally defined as two consecutive quarters of negative economic growth. 

 Lehman Bros. strategist Jeff Applegate thinks overall economic growth is slowing from 5%-plus annually to 4% or so, while corporate earnings will turn in gains of 12% to 13% next year--robust, though well down from their 18% to 20% peaks. 

 Beyond the headline numbers such as sales and profit growth, investors in the current skeptical environment are looking more closely at companies' profit margins and things like inventories, receivables and nonrecurring gains. 

 Purchase, N.Y., money manager Robert Olstein, a stickler for earnings "quality," said he is amazed by Wall Street's newfound rigor. 

 When the market was booming late last year and early this year, nobody seemed to mind that, for example, telecommunications-equipment companies were inflating sales by offering easy financing terms to fledgling Internet companies. 

 When the "dot-com" crash came, it caused uncollectible receivables to balloon on the books of many such suppliers, Olstein said. 

 That, in part, explains the plunge in shares of former market darling Lucent Technologies, which closed at $22.63 Friday, down 70% from its peak of December. 

 Something similar happened with tech firms that had been boosting their bottom lines with nonrecurring gains from investments in Internet firms, Olstein said. Those gains have turned into losses, hurting profits of companies such as America Online and Amazon.com, he said. 

 Among retailers, one of the red-flag numbers in the recent earnings reports has been rising inventories. 

 "It's hard to avoid excessive inventories if you've been stocking up for 10% year-on-year sales gains," said economist John Lonski of Moody's Investor's Service. 

 And an inventory glut leads to price discounting, which, of course, squeezes profit margins. 

 Home Depot's profit warning, as noted, had much to do with energy costs, but it also stemmed from the chain's being forced to cut prices on lumber to match competitors. 

 In some cases, firms will temporarily sacrifice profit margins for what they consider a greater good. 

 On Wednesday, for example, Sun Microsystems reported bang-up profit and sales gains for the quarter, but saw its gross profit margins dip to 48% from 52%. 

 The next day, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas Kraemer applauded Sun, saying that the networking-hardware giant decided to pay up for scarce components to meet booming orders rather than to ease back on sales and protect its margins. 

 Investors agreed--and Sun shares leaped $7.38 on Thursday and an additional $1 on Friday, to $118.69. 

 * 

 Bloomberg News was used in compiling this report. 

 GRAPHIC-TABLE: Earnings, So Far, Los Angeles Times; 

Document latm000020010808dwal022nv




 UPDATE 4-Ericsson plunges on " profit warning ". 

 By Jan Strupczewski 
1,033 words
20 October 2000
13:21
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 STOCKHOLM, Oct 20 (Reuters) - Swedish telecoms equipment maker Ericsson shed nearly one quarter of its value on Friday as it disappointed markets with what analysts said amounted to a profit warning for 2000 and a weak outlook for 2001. 

 Ericsson shares crashed 24 percent to an intraday year-low of 115 crowns after bearish remarks by company executives following a disappointing interim earnings report. 

 "For this year it is clearly a profit warning," said Mika Paloranta, analyst at ArosMaizels in Finland. 

 The company beat market expectations by more than tripling its nine-month pre-tax profit to 24.1 billion crowns ($2.39 billion) thanks to booming sales of its key networks unit. 

 But it cut its sales and margins outlook for 2000 for the whole company and forecast the loss from its handsets would be twice as much as expected at a staggering 16 billion crowns. 

 Dealing another blow to the already plunging shares, Ericsson's chief financial officer Sten Fornell told analysts on a telephone conference call from New York that the firm expected very weak profitability in the fourth quarter. 

 HANDSET GLOOM 

 He also said the loss-making handset division would show a loss for the whole of next year as well, despite an expected return to the black in the second half of the year on a tough programme of slimming the division and cutting model portfolio. 

 "When we anticipate an operating margin of six to seven percent this year then yes, of course, that means we will have a very weak profitability in the fourth quarter," he added. 

 "It's most likely that Consumer Products will produce a loss for the full year (of 2001)," he said. 

 The world's third largest mobile handset maker reacted to growing losses in its mobile handset unit by shifting resources to its highly profitable networks business - building systems that mobile subscribers use - where it is the world leader. 

 But Ericsson made it clear it had not intention of getting out of mobile handsets. 

 "Even though consumer products only represent 20 percent of our business it's still part of Ericsson's core business," President Kurt Hellstrom told the conference. 

 Ericsson - the last of the big three mobile makers to report third-quarter figures after Motorola of the United States and Finland's Nokia - said its troubled consumer products division made a loss of 5.9 billion crowns in the nine months, above market expectations of 5.4 billion. 

 ERICSSON TARGETS PROFITABILITY 

 Ericsson expects the industry's world wide mobile phone sales to reach 420 million units this year and rise to 525-575 million in 2001, similar to forecasts by Motorola and Nokia. 

 But it was unclear what share of the sales would come to Ericsson, as Hellstrom reiterated the company was now struggling to return to profitability, not gain market share, which had fallen from 15 percent to around 10 percent. 

 "Today we will be more focused on stopping the bleeding of this (handset) business and get back to profit... that means we are going to phase out products that we planned earlier," Hellstrom said. 

 Ericsson's results follow a strong report by its rival Nokia, the biggest mobile phone maker in the world, which on Thursday boosted technology stocks globally with higher than expected third-quarter pre-tax profits and a positive outlook. 

 Alone among major handset producers, Nokia boasts high profitability thanks to a focus on cheap models, which Ericsson lacks, and which account for 70 percent of the new phone market. 

 "In the mobile phones business Ericsson is on a different planet than Nokia - Nokia is succeeding fabulously and Ericsson is in the throes of death in that business," said Paloranta. 

 Friday's losses mean that since hitting a year high of 230.5 crowns on March 6, Ericsson has underperformed the Dow Jones technology index by 26 percent. 

 To return its mobile phone division, which accounts for only 20 percent of the company's business, to the black, Ericsson said it would sell its U.S. operation in Lynchburg to SCI Systems and shift production from there and from its Swedish plant to Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. 

 "Their problem is that they are not getting the right product out on the market at the right time," said a manager of a large global technology fund, which owns Ericsson shares. 

 "It's a marketing problem, not a production cost problem. The outsourcing and streamlining is a step in the right direction, but they need to do more." 

 In a separate statement Finnish electronics firm Elcoteq said it would substantially increase the number of mobile phones it made for Ericsson, mainly in Hungary, adding it would help triple it sales and profits this year. 

 Elcoteq shares surged 23 percent to 34.50 euros on the news. 

 MOBILE NETWORKS DIVISION MARGINS FALL 

 Ericsson said its order book in the nine months grew 35 percent to 212.9 billion crowns and sales rose 35 percent to 191.5 billion. 

 But it downgraded its sales growth outlook for 2000 to "around 25 percent" from "exceeding 25 percent" at mid-year and cut its outlook for margins to six-seven percent from 10 percent. 

 The key mobile networks division, accounting for 80 percent of the company's business, saw a rise in sales of 34 percent to 132.7 billion crowns, slightly above analysts' expectations. 

 But the operating margin on the networks business for the third quarter alone eased to 17 percent from 21 percent in the second quarter, below market expectations of 18 percent. 

 "There is clear evidence of slowing growth in Ericsson's flagship infrastracture business," said Per Lindberg, analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson. 

 The company said it saw its future in the development of 3G telephony (UMTS), which will enable mobile phone users to see video and graphics on the handsets and be permanently connected to the Internet. 

 Ericsson, which has 16 out of the world's 21 contracts for 3G telephony systems, said moving production of mobile phones from Sweden and the United States would free up resources to meet high expected demand for 3G systems. 

Document lba0000020010822dwak03ux3




 Goodyear seen reporting break-even quarter or loss. 

477 words
20 October 2000
23:33
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 20 (Reuters) - Analysts expect Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. to break even or report a small loss in the third quarter, in line with the revised estimates the company released in September. 

 Goodyear's chief executive, Samir Gibara, said in an note on September 21 that the tire industry's economic outlook was "difficult", citing rising energy prices and a weak euro. 

 Compounding those problems for the world's biggest tire maker is a drop in sales volume, which led to manufacturing inefficiencies and higher unit costs, the company said. 

 Consensus estimates of Wall Street analysts fell to a loss of 2 cents per share after the warning from the tire maker, according to First Call. Prior to that, analysts had, on average, expected Goodyear to post a profit of 29 cents per share. 

 In the same quarter last year, Goodyear reported net earnings of 51 cents per share. The company said it will report this quarter's results on Oct. 24. 

 Other companies in the auto parts industry have seen earnings decline because of a weakening economy in the third quarter. Dana Corp. said profits fell 62 percent in the third quarter, reflecting weak truck sales, and industrial manufacturer Eaton Corp. reported a six percent decline due to weakness in its North American truck and auto markets. 

 On Thursday, Lehman Brothers cut its earnings estimates on about 10 auto suppliers. Other analysts have been pessimistic as well. 

 "Automakers don't really have a lot of pricing flexibility," Dresdner Kleinwort Benson analyst Mary Anne Sudol said. "One of the biggest places to get your savings is in materials." 

 WEAK EURO 

 On the positive side, Goodyear stands to gain from the 6.5 million tire recall by Bridgestone/Firestone Inc.. Those tires have been blamed by U.S. regulators for accidents that caused the deaths of more than 100 people. 

 While consumers may be seeking replacement tires from Goodyear, the company said sharply negative economic conditions have kept those benefits from reaching the bottom line. 

 Energy prices, which have jumped in response to OPEC production quotas and turmoil in the Middle East, have a direct impact on tire makers' production costs. Oil-derived products can make up about 25 percent of the cost of a tire, Goodyear said. 

 And a weakening currency in Europe means that American companies like Goodyear lose out when their European sales are reported in terms of dollars. 

 The phase out of a manufacturing facility in Europe has also exacerbated the problem by increase costs, Goodyear said. 

 Goodyear shares have felt the heat throughout the year, falling almost steadily from as high as $47 to as low as $17. 

 Goodyear stock was up just under 1 percent in late-day trading on the New York Stock Exchange, up $0.15 to $17.15. 

Document lba0000020010822dwak03sgb




 Ericsson sets new year lows after report. 

275 words
20 October 2000
13:59
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 STOCKHOLM, Oct 20 (Reuters) - Swedish telecoms equipment maker Ericsson plunged 40 crowns or 26.5 percent to 111 crowns, setting new year-lows, following a profit warning, its nine month report and bearish remarks by top executives. 

 The previous year low at 115 crowns on January 7. 

 The stock pulled down with it the Swedish top-30 OMX index, in which holds some 40 percent, by 8.13 percent to 1083.83 points. 

 The company beat market expectations by more than tripling its nine-month pre-tax profit to 24.1 billion crowns ($2.39 billion) thanks to booming sales of its key networks unit. 

 But it cut its sales and margins outlook for 2000 for the whole company and forecast a loss from its handsets twice as much as expected to a staggering 16 billion crowns. 

 Dealing another blow to the already plunging shares, Ericsson's chief financial officer Sten Fornell told analysts in a telephone conference from New York the firm expected very weak profitability in the fourth quarter. 

 He also said the loss-making handset division would show a loss for the whole of next year as well, despite an expected return to the black in the second half of the year on a tough programme of slimming the division and cutting model portfolio. 

 "When we anticipate an operating margin of six to seven percent this year then yes, of course, that means we will have a very weak profitability in the fourth quarter," he added. 

 "It's most likely that Consumer Products will produce a loss for the full year (of 2001)," he said. 

Document lba0000020010822dwak03nnv




 Compaq Computer Says PC Inventory Levels Are Fine 

324 words
20 October 2000
12:41
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 HOUSTON -- Ahead of its third-quarter earnings report next week, Compaq Computer Corp. issued a brief statement saying it is comfortable with channel-inventory levels. 

 The No. 1 maker of personal computers has released similar missives in the past, amid reports that the company has a glut of PCs sitting in its warehouses. 

 PC sales have slowed industry wide, impacting such bellwethers as Dell Computer Corp., Apple Computer Inc. and Intel Corp., whose stocks have taken a beating in the recent technology sell-off on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Compaq (CPQ) has faced the added pressure of trying to revamp its sales-distribution operations to better position it to compete with the likes of direct-sellers Dell and Gateway Inc., which have been chipping away at the giant's market share. 

 Dell (DELL), the No. 2 seller of PCs, earlier this month warned that third-quarter revenue would be below expectations because of continued weak sales in Europe and to the U.S. government. 

 Apple (AAPL) this week missed lowered expectations for its fiscal fourth-quarter earnings, and cut profit goals for its fiscal year, while warning about its next quarter. The PC maker said sales were slower than expected and promised to work to sell off its built-up channel inventory. 

 Intel (INTC), meanwhile, surpassed reduced expectations for third-quarter profit but was conservative in its outlook for the fourth quarter because of sluggish demand for its chips, especially in Europe. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial expect Compaq to post earnings of 29 cents a share. In the year-earlier quarter, Compaq earned $140 million, or eight cents a share, on revenue of $9.21 billion. Excluding items, earnings from operations came to seven cents a share. 

 Compaq said it will report third-quarter results after the market close Tuesday, as scheduled. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwak01mn4




 28bn pounds merger sees aero firms take off. 

 NICK BEVENS. 
576 words
20 October 2000
The Scotsman
SC
English
(c) 2000

 UNITED Technologies and Honeywell International, two of the biggest US conglomerates, are planning a 28 billion pounds merger to create the world's largest aerospace parts company. 

 The two companies' boards refused to comment on the massive deal, but they confirmed they will meet tomorrow to approve the transaction. 

 United is expected to exchange 0.74 of a share for each Honeywell share, valuing the offer at $50 (or 34 pounds) a share, it said. Annual sales of the combined giant will be around 35bn pounds. 

 Seats 

 United Technologies, which makes Otis lifts, Carrier air conditioners, Pratt & Whitney aero-engines and Sikorsky helicopters, would be the senior partner to Honeywell, which spans aerospace components, industrial controls and performance materials. 

 At current prices, United is valued at around 23.4bn, while Honeywell is worth 20bn. 

 Analysts expect United Technologies to report sales of 18.6bn this year and net income of around 1.25bn. Honeywell should produce net profits of 1.65bn on revenues of 17.9bn. 

 United Technologies chairman and chief executive George David will run the enlarged company as chief executive, while Michael Bonsignore, his counterpart at Honeywell, will become chairman. The number of board seats will be more or less evenly divided between the two groups. 

 United's third-quarter profit recently rose 14 per cent, led by sales at its elevator and aerospace units and by cost cutting. Earnings have increased in 28 consecutive quarters under Mr David's leadership. 

 With a market capitalisation of 23.4bn, United ranks one below Pepsi in the Forbes top 100. Nearly 40 per cent of its revenue is derived from Europe. 

 United's deal-making prowess is where its story differs from most other conglomerates. Last year the company completed 34 deals. 

 Acquisitions totalled 4.48bn, including the purchase of Sundstrand, a leading aerospace systems producer. 

 Honeywell's profits rose 9.5 per cent in the recent quarter of this year. The firm has a major manufacturing operation just outside Glasgow, but no details on how that might be affected were available today. 

 Honeywell is itself the product of a merger between AlliedSignal and the former Honeywell in June 1999. 

 The massive acquisition will combine United's aerospace units with Honeywell's business that makes aircraft landing gear, cockpit and navigational systems. United got more than 40 per cent of its 16.5bn in sales last year from aerospace and the rest from its Otis elevator business units. 

 Its shares have gained 27 per cent in the past year, while Honeywell's have dropped 40 per cent since the company was formed in December when it was bought by AlliedSignal, which then assumed the Honeywell name. 

 Mr Bonsignore has been seeking to regain investor confidence after several revised profit forecasts since the AlliedSignal combination. 

 The company surprised investors in June with a profit warning just two weeks after he said that profit would meet forecasts. 

 Venture 

 Honeywell, based in Morris Township, New Jersey, said in July that profit will be less than expected in the second half and next year because of a shortage of parts at its aerospace unit, higher raw-material costs and rising interest rates. It planned to cut an additional 6000 jobs and sell businesses to pare costs and boost profit. 

 The two companies have already partnered to create an internet exchange venture for aerospace parts and services called MyAircraft.com. 

Document sc00000020010816dwak00knh




 Technology 
 Apple's Earnings Disappoint For the Fourth Quarter --- Fiscal-Year Target  Cut  as Firm Focuses on Sales 

 By Pui-Wing Tam 
Staff Reporter
386 words
20 October 2000
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
28
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Apple Computer Inc. missed lowered expectations for fourth-quarter earnings and cut profit targets for its fiscal year, warning investors that its next quarter would also disappoint as the computer maker worked to remedy sales shortfalls. 

 Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, said the company planned to be back on track by its fiscal 2001 second quarter. During its fiscal first quarter, he said Apple would work to sell off its built-up channel inventory. The company also has instituted a hiring freeze. 

 "Apple will have two disappointing -- but profitable -- quarters," said Mr. Jobs, during a subdued conference call with analysts. "While this is a regrettable pause," Mr. Jobs emphasized that Apple will get back to the hot growth streak that it has experienced during the past two years. 

 For its fourth quarter ended Sept. 30, the Cupertino, California, personal-computer maker posted net income including investment gains of $170 million, or 47 cents a diluted share, compared with $111 million, or 31 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 40% to $1.87 billion from $1.34 billion. 

 Excluding investment gains, earnings were 30 cents a share, compared with a consensus estimate of 31 cents, according a survey of analysts from First Call/Thomson Financial. Before Apple issued a profit warning last month, analysts had expected earnings of 45 cents a share and revenue of $2 billion. 

 Apple, which reported earnings after the market close on Tuesday, has seen its stock fall more than 50% since that warning. At 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading Tuesday, Apple was unchanged at $20.13. In after hours trading, the stock dropped to $17.30. 

 For the next quarter, Fred Anderson, Apple's chief financial officer, said the company expects lower revenue of $1.6 billion and is "targeting only a slight profit." For the current fiscal year, ending September 2001, he lowered revenue projections to $7.5 billion to $8 billion, and earnings to $1.10 to $1.25 a diluted share. That translates to flat growth from the just-ended fiscal year, in which Apple posted revenue of $7.98 billion, and earnings of $2.18 a diluted share. 

Document awsj000020010803dwak00co5




 Circuit City warns of losses in third quarter 

498 words
20 October 2000
23:12
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 RICHMOND, Va. (AP) - Shares in Circuit City fell more than 35 percent on Friday after the home electronics retailer issued its second profitwarning in as many months. 

 Circuit City Stores Inc. warned it will lose money in the third quarter because of weaker-than-expected sales over the past four weeks in virtually all product areas. 

 The nation's largest retailer of brand-name electronics now expects losses of 5 cents to 10 cents a share for the period ending Nov. 30. 

 Excluding the cost of remodeling, markdowns and disruptions, earnings per share would be 13 cents to 18 cents, compared with 27 cents a share in the same quarter of 1999. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had been expecting earnings of 16 cents a share. 

 The company said that if the sales trend continues, it would expect to post fourth-quarter earnings of 79 cents in its Circuit City business, below the Wall Street consensus estimate of 96 cents. 

 Shares of the company's major operating division Circuit City Group, which consists of sales of Circuit City and most of its used-car retailer, CarMax, closed Friday down $7.56 to $13.88 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 In September, the company issued a third-quarter earnings warning, attributing it to its exit of the major appliance business and some store remodeling. 

 In Thursday's conference call with analysts, however, W. Alan McCollough, president and chief executive officer of Circuit City Stores, said the slowdown is much broader than initially thought, and includes products not affected by the remodeling. 

 "While new or more complex technologies such as digital televisions, digital camcorders and cameras remain our strongest products, the slower sales pace extends to most categories in the store," he said in a statement. 

 During the conference call, McCollough said he was confused as to what was causing the slowdown. "There's a lot going in the mixed pot," he said. 

 However, McCollough remain bullish for the long-term, noting that he is counting on seasonal holiday products as well as completion of the remodeling of its stores to turn business around. The company plans to beef up advertising at that time. 

 Dandy Barrett, director of investor relations, said that remodeling, markdowns on remaining appliances and sales disruptions are expected to account for losses of 25 cents per share, meaning the company would otherwise have turned a profit. 

 Citing increasing competition, the company pulled out of the appliance business in July to concentrate on electronics and home-office products. It also said it would spend more than $1 billion during the next three years to refurbish stores nationwide and would cut about 1,000 jobs in the process. 

 "Our remodel schedule remains on target with 383 stores currently complete," McCollough said. 

 Circuit City Stores operates 577 superstores, 43 mall-based Circuit City Express stores and 40 CarMax locations. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

http://investor.circuitcity.com

Rush

Document aprs000020010804dwak02cdg




BIZ
Microsoft earnings climb 23% Slow program sales undercut forecast; tire recall hurts Ford

Denver Post Staff and Wire Reports   
1,600 words
19 October 2000
The Denver Post
DNVR
THT
C-02
English
Copyright © 2000 The Denver Post Corp. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Microsoft Corp. said fiscal first-quarter earnings rose 23 percent, as the world's largest software maker posted slower growth in sales of programs that run personal computers for businesses.

Profit from operations rose to $2.58 billion, or 46 cents a share, from $2.09 billion, or 38 cents, a year earlier. Analysts expected earnings of 41 cents, the average forecast in a poll by First Call/Thomson Financial.

Revenue rose 7.7 percent to $5.80 billion from $5.38 billion. In the year-earlier quarter, sales climbed 28 percent. Analysts said weak demand for corporate PCs crimped revenue growth, while sales of Microsoft's Windows 2000 system for computer networks haven't yet taken off.

The shares of Redmond, Wash.-based Microsoft rose $1.31 to $51.75 in Nasdaq trading. The stock is down 56 percent this year, making it the worst performer in the 30-member Dow Jones industrial average.

Ford Motor Co.

Ford Motor Co.'s third-quarter earnings declined 7 percent to $888 million, a drop the company blamed on costs from the recall of 6.5 million Firestone tires, many of which were on its Ford Explorers.

"Getting our customers onto good tires has been, and continues to be, more important than short-term profits," Ford president and CEO Jacques Nasser said in a statement announcing the earnings on Wednesday. "This was a difficult quarter for our customers, our employees, our dealers and our shareholders, and we are committed to quickly completing the Firestone tire recall."

Ford chief financial officer Henry Wallace said the recall cost about $500 million in the quarter. He said about half that comes from the temporary shutdown of three factories to divert tires to consumers, which cut production of the Ford Explorer and Mercury Mountaineer by 15,000 vehicles.

The world's No. 2 automaker earned 53 cents a share for the three months ending in September, compared with $959 million, or 78 cents a share, for the same period of 1999. Last year's results do not include earnings from Visteon Corp., the parts division Ford spun off this year.

The results were in line with Wall Street expectations after adjusting for a complicated stock swap that changed the number of shares in the company during the quarter.

Eastman Kodak Co.

Eastman Kodak Co., the world's largest photography company, said fourth-quarter profits will be below analysts' forecasts because retailers aren't stocking up on film and sales are slowing.

The forecast follows an 8.4 percent decline in third-quarter profits from operations to $430 million, or $1.40 a share, from $466 million, or $1.45, in the year-earlier period. Sales rose slightly to $3.59 billion from $3.58 billion, said Gerard Meuchner, a Kodak spokesman.

Kodak lowered its third-quarter earnings forecast on Sept. 26 because it said sales had abruptly slowed in September for film and digital products. The company expects fourth-quarter earnings of $1 to $1.15 a share, below the $1.14 to $1.32 a share range of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial.

Profit in the recent quarter exceeded the revised $1.37 average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson. Analysts had expected $1.60 a share before the earlier warning.

Sun Microsystems Inc.

Sun Microsystems Inc., one of the biggest makers of computers that power Internet sites and corporate networks, said fiscal first-quarter profits rose 88 percent as sales climbed.

Net income climbed to $510 million, or 30 cents a share, from $271 million, or a split-adjusted 16 cents, a year ago. Sun was scheduled to report earnings after U.S. markets closed, but issued them early after the release appeared on its Web site. Shares rose $5.06 to $116.44 at midafternoon.

Sales jumped 60 percent to $5.05 billion as Sun added new server computers and data-storage gear for customers trying to manage rising traffic and information generated by the Internet. Analysts say the company is grabbing more of the fast-growing market than rivals Hewlett-Packard Co. and International Business Machines Corp.

The Palo Alto, Calif.-based company was expected to earn 26 cents a share in the quarter ended Oct. 1, the average analyst estimate in a First Call/Thomson Financial poll.

Time Warner Inc.

Media giant Time Warner Inc. reported third-quarter earnings Wednesday that easily beat analysts' estimates, helping its stock recover from a sharp plunge on Tuesday.

Time Warner earned $88 million in the three months ending in September, down from $369 million in the same period last year, when profits were lifted by gains from selling and swapping cable systems.

Net earnings per share were 6 cents compared to 28 cents a year earlier. Taking out one-time charges, the company earned 7 cents a share in the latest period, well above the 4 cents forecast by analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial.

Revenues rose 2.2 percent to $6.87 billion from $6.72 billion.

Time Warner's stock regained its feet following a 16 percent plunge on Tuesday, closing at $69.25, up $3.69, on the New York Stock Exchange.

America Online Inc.

America Online Inc.'s earnings nearly doubled in the quarter ending in September as the company added 1.4 million new customers and recorded a 34 percent increase in revenues.

AOL reported first-quarter profits Wednesday of $345 million, up from $181 million for the same period last year. Per-share earnings were 13 cents compared to 7 cents. Taking out merger-related costs, the latest per-share figures were 14 cents, edging the 13 cents expected by analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial.

Revenues rose to $1.98 billion from $1.48 billion.

Boeing Co.

Boeing Co., bolstered by more commercial jet orders and faster assembly lines, said third-quarter profits rose 20 percent. It also raised its forecast for 2001.

Profit from operations at the world's biggest maker of aircraft climbed to $622 million, or 72 cents a share, from $518 million, or 56 cents, in the year-earlier quarter. Sales fell 11 percent to $11.88 billion from $13.28 billion.

The Seattle-based company said operating profit margins, the share of sales left after costs, will exceed 8.5 percent next year, more than an earlier estimate of about 8 percent.

The third-quarter earnings beat the average analyst estimate of 67 cents a share in a First Call/Thomson Financial survey.

Mail-Well Inc.

Mail-Well Inc. announced Wednesday disappointing third-quarter earnings of 14 cents per share, which included previously announced restructuring charges. Excluding restructuring charges, the company earned 25 cents per share.

For the three months ended Sept. 30, the printing, envelope, label and office products company, earned $6.8 million, or 14 cents per share, compared with $17.5 million, or 32 cents per share, in the same period a year ago.

During the quarter the company completed the sale of Jen-Coat for $100 million, reducing the company's debt level to below $1 billion.

The company said fourth-quarter earnings from operations, excluding restructuring charges, will be about 24-26 cents per share.

Sales during the quarter increased 24.9 percent to $615.6 million from $492.8 million in 1999.

Mail-Well shares rose 13 cents Wednesday to close at $4.38 on the New York Stock Exchange.

New Era of Networks Inc.

New Era of Networks Inc., a maker of software that links incompatible computers, Wednesday announced a third-quarter net loss of $6.4 million, or 18 cents per share, compared with a loss of $34.9 million, or $1.06, in the same period last year. Revenues in the quarter increased 73 percent to $55.2 million from $31.9 million in 1999.

The company reported triple-digit year-over-year growth in software license revenue of 160 percent. NEON also said it had a 6 percent operating profit, excluding charges and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $5 million for the quarter and $14.7 million year-to-date.

Results stated in thousands of dollars, except per share amounts. Losses in parentheses.

QualMark Corp.QMRKQtr Sept. 30:20001999Revenues$3,073 $2,449 Net income$43 ($1,920)Earns per share$0.01 ($0.54) 9 mos:20001999Revenues$9,534$8,831Net income($429) ($2,749) Earns per share($0.12)($0.79)

Rogue Wave Software RWAVQtr Sept. 30:20001999Revenues$14,722 $13,509Net income($10,205)($411) Earns per share($0.94)($0.04)12 mos:20001999Revenues$54,441 $53,104 Net income($10,558) $2,011 Earns per share($1.00) $0.19

Spectranetics Corp. SPNCQtr Sept. 30:20001999Revenues$6,369 $6,644 Net income($990) ($325) Earns per share($0.04)($0.01)9 mos:20001999Revenues$19,839 $15,651Net income($2,861)$5,145 Earns per share($0.12) $0.23

Stillwater Mining Corp. SWCQtr Sept. 30:20001999Revenues$52,555 $32,204 Net income$14,593 $5,099 Earns per share$0.37 $0.13 9 mos:20001999Revenues$162,455 $107,079Net income$47,199 $23,733 Earns per share$1.20 $0.62

Evergreen Resources Inc. EVGQtr Sept.

30:20001999Revenues$12,288$5,855 Net income$3,205 $1,438 Earns per share$0.15 $0.09 9 mos:20001999Revenues$28,099$15,681 Net income$7,312 $3,293 Earns per share$0.41 $0.25

Document DNVR000020150821dwaj016my




 UPDATE 2-Praxair shares tumble after Q4  profit warning . 

408 words
19 October 2000
22:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Updates stock price, adds Air Product & Chemical earnings) 

 NEW YORK, Oct 19 (Reuters) - Industrial gases producer Praxair Inc.'s shares fell as much as 15 percent on Thursday after it reported third-quarter profits that matched expectations, but said fourth-quarter estimates would fall short of projections. 

 Danbury, Conn.-based Praxair reported net income of $122 million, or 76 cents per diluted share, for the quarter ended Sept. 30, compared with $112 million, or 69 cents per share, a year earlier. 

 Sales climbed 9 percent to $1.28 billion from $1.17 billion in 1999. 

 Analysts had on average expected earnings of 76 cents a share, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 But President and Chief Executive Dennis Reilley said in a statement he was cautious about fourth-quarter earnings, noting the slowing U.S. economy and higher energy costs. As a result, he said profits for the quarter will likely be flat compared with those in the third quarter. 

 While fourth-quarter earnings of 76 cents would mark a 9 percent rise from the same period a year ago, they would nonetheless be well short of analysts' expectations of 82 cents a share. 

 Investors sold off the company's stock after the warning, sending it as low as $30-5/16, below its previous 52-week low of $31-3/8. Shares later recovered to close down $3-3/4 at $32-11/16. 

 Rival industrial gases supplier Air Product & Chemicals Inc. was also hard hit on the New York Stock Exchange, falling as much as 14 percent before it rebounded on the back of its own fourth-quarter results. 

 The Lehigh Valley, Pennsylvania-based company reported net income of $139 million, or 64 cents a share, compared to $116 million or 54 cents a share a year ago. That was slightly better than the 61 cents analysts had forecast. 

 Air Product's shares closed down 2-3/4 at $32-15/16. 

 Praxair's Reilley, meanwhile, said that "with an uncertain outlook for energy costs and their impact on global economics, actions are warranted to ensure we continue to meet our financial goals." 

 Reilley said the company had studied its cost structure as well as its prospects for growth and strong productivity gains, adding that steps would be taken in each of these areas to make sure it meets financial goals next year. 

Document lba0000020010822dwaj03uum




 UPDATE 2 - Crown Cork Q3 profits drop 62 percent. 

642 words
19 October 2000
19:05
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 PHILADELPHIA, Oct 19 (Reuters) - Crown Cork & Seal Inc. , a leading supplier of packaging products, reported sharply lower profits for the third-quarter on Thursday, citing fierce price competition, lower sales volumes and higher costs for crude oil and materials. 

 Net income for the three months ended Sept. 30, plunged about 62 percent to $44 million, or 35 cents per diluted share, compared with $118 million, or 91 cents, reported for the comparable period in 1999. 

 The earnings-per-share figure was in line with a Wall Street consensus forecast compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial, and at the low end of a 35-40 cent target range disclosed by the company in a Sept. 28 profit warning. 

 Meanwhile, net sales edged 8.7 percent lower to $1.95 billion from $2.14 billion a year earlier, due partly to the dollar's strength against the euro. Most of the sales decline resulted from lower prices and sales volumes across in several product areas. 

 Crown Cork & Seal, which makes beverage and food cans as well as other packaging products, has described 2000 as one of its most difficult years in recent history due to unfavourable market conditions in Europe and North America. 

 Senior executives told analysts last month that the company would likely post a loss for the fourth quarter. 

 But the stock rallied in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, reaching a high of $9-3/16 before falling back to $8-15/16 for an intraday gain of 1/4, or about 6 percent. 

 Analysts attributed the strength to several factors including the readiness of Crown Cork & Seal executives to pursue price increases in key product areas, and the company's limited exposure to asbestos-related damage claims that have overshadowed manufacturers such as Owens-Illinois Inc. . 

 "Their exposure is very small, 10 to 15 percent of what other companies face," Perk Thornton of Goldman Sachs said. 

 "As an industrial company, it still has a lot of integrity. People don't think Crown's going to go bankrupt. And the valuation at these levels - they haven't said they're going to cut the dividend - makes for an 11 or 12 percent yielder here. Plus, there's cash flow to pay down the debt." 

 The Philadelphia-based company's Americas Division saw net sales fall 6.4 percent to $987 million while its operating margin shrank to 7 percent from 10 percent, reflecting the combined impact of pricing pressures and lower volumes. 

 North American beverage can volumes declined 6 percent amid a 5 percent drop in the overall market for aluminum soft drink cans. Crown Cork & Seal said volumes fell as soft-drink companies sought to improve pricing for their products. 

 Food can volumes for North America were also lower after a major customer filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and reduced demand. 

 North American aerosol can volumes were flat. Plastic packaging products experienced unit volume growth in most product lines, including PET preforms, beverage closures and speciality closures. However, PET beverage bottle volumes were off 3 percent. 

 Net sales in Crown Cork & Seal's European Division fell to $885 million for the third quarter, from $1.01 billion a year earlier, mainly because of the strong dollar. Operating margin also declined to 13.3 percent from 15.8 percent. 

 European beverage can volume rose 5 percent with solid demand from southern Europe. But food can volumes dipped 5 percent on soft demand in France and Britain. Plastic container sales rose more than 1 percent, with gains in beauty care, PET and personal care bottles. 

 In the company's Asia-Pacific Division, net sales rose 12 percent to $82 million, with a modest improvement in operating income and double-digit volume growth in most product lines. 

Document lba0000020010822dwaj03tn1




 Xerox's credit ratings may be  cut  again, Moody's says. 

 By Jonathan Stempel 
555 words
19 October 2000
17:06
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 19 (Reuters) - Xerox Corp.'s credit ratings, already teetering near junk status, may fall again soon, credit rating agency Moody's Investors Service said on Thursday, as the world's largest photocopier maker fights off what analysts have said may be a cash crunch. 

 Moody's said its review will focus on Xerox's operating profits and cash flow in light of "intensifying competition, evidence of slowing demand in the office equipment sector, and the ongoing disruptions caused by its restructuring efforts." 

 Xerox competes in the office copier market with Hewlett-Packard Co., Canon Inc. and Fuji Photo Film Co., among others. 

 Just three weeks after downgrading the credit ratings of the Stamford, Conn.-based company, Moody's said it may cut Xerox's "Baa2" senior unsecured and "Baa3" subordinated debt ratings, which are just two and one notches above junk, respectively. It also said it may cut the firm's "Prime-2" commercial paper rating, its second lowest commercial paper grade other than junk. 

 The agency also said it may cut the "Baa2" senior unsecured and "Prime-2" commercial paper ratings of Xerox's financing arm, Xerox Credit Corp. 

 The review comes after the blue-chip icon of corporate America said it tapped a $7 billion credit line with 58 banks rather than sell more commercial paper, and affirmed that it has "adequate liquidity." 

 Christa Carone, a spokeswoman for Xerox, said on Thursday "it is our practice not to comment on any future ratings actions." 

 Xerox, she said, plans to release its third quarter financial results on Oct. 24, "as well as more details on an action plan to transform the company." 

 Xerox this month also warned of a third-quarter earnings loss of 15 to 20 cents per share, compared to the 12 cents per share profit analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial expected. It was the company's fourth profit warning in the last five quarters. Xerox also cut its quarterly dividend to five cents per share from 20 cents. 

 The company's stock has plunged by more than two-thirds this year, and by more than half this month, and its "distressed" bonds are now quoted by price, like junk, instead of by their yield premium relative to U.S. Treasuries, like investment-grade bonds. 

 A cut to junk status could force some portfolio managers, such as pension fund managers allowed only to invest in investment-grade debt, to sell Xerox debt, putting further possible downward pressure on its value. 

 Xerox's stock traded Thursday morning on the New York Stock Exchange at $7-3/16, up 3/8, or 5.5 percent. 

 The agency said the $7 billion credit line, which matures in October 2002, "provides sufficient liquidity over the near term; in addition to management's plans to effect further reductions in its operating cost structure." 

 Last Friday, another rating agency, Fitch, cut its ratings for Xerox's long-and short-term senior debt to "BBB-minus" and "F3," each one notch above junk, with a negative outlook. A third agency, Standard & Poor's, last month cut Xerox's long-and short-term debt ratings to "BBB" and "A-2," roughly equivalent to Moody's ratings, with a stable outlook. 

Document lba0000020010822dwaj03se8




 Ryder  profit  drops, issues  warning . 

246 words
19 October 2000
16:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct. 19 (Reuters) - Ryder System Inc. , the No. 1 U.S. truck leasing company, on Thursday said its third-quarter earnings dropped 8.3 percent, partly related to salary and fuel increases. 

 The company also said it expects its fourth-quarter earnings per share to be in the range of 45 to 50 cents a share, falling well short of the 62 cents consensus estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 The company said third-quarter profit before one-time charges was $56.6 million, or 60 cents per share, compared to $61.7 million, or 55 cents in the year-earlier quarter. The earnings per share gain was due to a decline in average shares to 59.8 million from 69.4 million. 

 The company's net profit slumped to $12.1 million, or 20 cents per diluted share, from $361.5 million, or $5.21 per share. It took a total one-time pre-tax charge of $37.3 million in the latest quarter, mainly due to the write-down of the value of some tractors and a related increase in its reserves. In the year-earlier period it benefited from a $335.4 million aftertax one-time gain from the sale of its public transportation division. 

 The announcement triggered a 3/4, or 4.46 percent, decline in its share price to $16-1/16 in early trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Document lba0000020010822dwaj03rwt




 UPDATE 1 - Crown Cork Q3 profits drop 62 percent. 

483 words
19 October 2000
15:13
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 PHILADELPHIA, Oct 19 (Reuters) - Crown Cork & Seal Inc., a leading supplier of packaging products, reported sharply lower profits for the third-quarter on Thursday, citing fierce price competition, lower sales volumes and higher costs for crude oil and materials. 

 Net income for the three months ended Sept. 30 plunged about 62 percent to $44 million, or 35 cents per diluted share, compared with $118 million or 91 cents reported for the comparable period in 1999. 

 The earnings-per-share figure was in line with a Wall Street consensus forecast compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial, and at the low end of a 35-40 cent target range disclosed by the company in a Sept. 28 profit warning. 

 Meanwhile, net sales edged 8.7 percent lower to $1.95 billion from $2.14 billion a year earlier, due partly to the dollar's strength against the euro. Most of the sales decline resulted from lower prices and sales volumes across in several product areas. 

 Crown Cork & Seal, which makes beverage and food cans as well as other packaging products, has described 2000 as one of its most difficult years in recent history due to unfavourable market conditions in Europe and North America. 

 Senior executives told analysts last month that the company would likely post a loss for the fourth quarter. 

 The Philadelphia-based company's Americas Division saw net sales fall 6.4 percent to $987 million while its operating margin shrank to 7 percent from 10 percent, reflecting the combined impact of pricing pressures and lower volumes. 

 North American beverage can volumes declined 6 percent amid a 5 percent drop in the overall market for aluminum soft drink cans. Crown Cork & Seal said volumes fell as soft-drink companies sought to improve pricing for their products. 

 Food can volumes for North America were also lower after a major customer filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and reduced demand. 

 North American aerosol can volumes were flat. Plastic packaging products experienced unit volume growth in most product lines, including PET preforms, beverage closures and speciality closures. However, PET beverage bottle volumes were off 3 percent. 

 Net sales in Crown Cork & Seal's European Division fell to $885 million for the third quarter, from $1.01 billion a year earlier, mainly because of the strong dollar. Operating margin also declined to 13.3 percent from 15.8 percent. 

 European beverage can volume rose 5 percent with solid demand from southern Europe. But food can volumes dipped 5 percent on soft demand in France and Britain. Plastic container sales rose more than 1 percent, with gains in beauty care, PET and personal care bottles. 

 In the company's Asia-Pacific Division, net sales rose 12 percent to $82 million, with a modest improvement in operating income and double-digit volume growth in most product lines. 

Document lba0000020010822dwaj03r5r




 Technology Journal 
 Kodak Net Exceeds Estimate, but Firm Warns of Slowdown 

 By William M. Bulkeley 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
466 words
19 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
B14
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Eastman Kodak Co. topped lowered expectations for its third quarter, but said a broadening economic slowdown will hurt results in the current quarter. 

 Kodak, which had warned of a profit disappointment last month, said earnings were $1.40 a diluted share, down 3.5% from $1.45 per share a year earlier, excluding one-time charges in both years. After last month's warning, analysts had dropped their expectations to $1.37 a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Net income in the quarter rose to $418 million, or $1.36 a share, from $235 million, or 73 cents per share, the previous year, including restructuring charges. Sales for the quarter were almost flat at $3.59 billion, compared with $3.58 billion, although Kodak noted that sales would have risen 4% if not for the decline of the euro. Kodak said it is adopting hedging strategies to reduce losses from currency fluctuation in the future. 

 Kodak, Rochester, N.Y., said its professional-film business continued to be hurt by a migration to digital technology by news and magazine photographers. But it said a more-significant change occurred in its consumer-imaging business, which had been growing strongly in the first two months of the quarter but slowed suddenly in September. U.S. consumer imaging rose 6% in the quarter, but international fell 8%, leading to a world-wide 2% decline to $1.94 billion. 

 Daniel Carp, chief executive officer, said, "In September, our sales to dealers were materially weaker than July and August," both in the U.S. and Europe. Mr. Carp said a number of big retailers appear to be reducing their inventories in anticipation of a slow year-end holiday season. 

 Kodak believes the slowdown will continue this quarter, and yesterday told analysts it expects fourth-quarter earnings per share of $1 to $1.15, below expectations of $1.24. Although Kodak declined to forecast sales for 2001, Mr. Carp said the company plans to increase earnings next year. He declined to give specific forecasts. 

 Jack L. Kelly, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, said, "This is symptomatic of what's happening in corporate America. We've been saying the slowdown is broader than people think." Mr. Kelly said he cut his estimate for Kodak's fourth quarter to $1.07 per share, from $1.32. 

 At 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Kodak shares gained 5.3%, or $1.94, to $38.38. Analysts said the stock price rose on news of Mr. Carp's plan for an earnings increase. 

 Kodak said it is cutting capital spending this year to $1 billion, from $1.1 billion. 

Document j000000020010807dwaj00rbl




 Technology Journal 
 Apple Posts Disappointing Quarter And Warns of Another to Come 

 By Pui-Wing Tam 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
717 words
19 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
B12
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Apple Computer Inc. missed lowered expectations for fourth-quarter earnings and cut profit targets for its fiscal year, warning investors that its next quarter would also disappoint as the computer maker worked to remedy sales shortfalls. 

 Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, said the company planned to be back on track by its fiscal 2001 second quarter. During its fiscal first quarter, he said Apple would work to sell off its built-up channel inventory. The company also has instituted a hiring freeze. 

 "Apple will have two disappointing -- but profitable -- quarters," said Mr. Jobs, during a subdued conference call with analysts. "While this is a regrettable pause," Mr. Jobs emphasized that Apple will get back to the hot growth streak that it has experienced during the past two years. 

 For its fiscal fourth quarter ended Sept. 30, the Cupertino, Calif., personal-computer maker posted net income including investment gains of $170 million, or 47 cents a diluted share, compared with $111 million, or 31 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 40% to $1.87 billion from $1.34 billion. 

 Excluding investment gains, earnings were 30 cents a share, compared with a consensus estimate of 31 cents, according a survey of analysts from First Call/Thomson Financial. Before Apple issued a profit warning last month, analysts had expected earnings of 45 cents a share and revenue of $2 billion. 

 Apple, which reported earnings after the market close, has seen its stock fall more than 50% since that warning. At 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, Apple was unchanged at $20.13. In after hours trading, the stock dropped to $17.30. 

 For the next quarter, Fred Anderson, Apple's chief financial officer, said the company expects lower revenue of $1.6 billion and is "targeting only a slight profit." For the current fiscal year, ending September 2001, he lowered revenue projections to $7.5 billion to $8 billion, and earnings to $1.10 to $1.25 a diluted share. That translates to flat growth from the just-ended fiscal year, in which Apple posted revenue of $7.98 billion, and earnings of $2.18 a diluted share. 

 "My view is this is a company that is now facing major difficulties," said Steven Fortuna, first vice president at Merrill Lynch & Co. "It's not clear to me how Apple can reinvigorate itself." 

 Meanwhile, Mr. Anderson cited several factors for the quarter's disappointment. Slower-than-expected sales of Apple's new Power Mac G4 Cube computers contributed to a $90 million revenue shortfall, he said, while fewer sales to schools added a $60 million shortfall. In addition, fewer sales of higher-end dual-processor Power Mac G4 desktops contributed a $30 million shortfall. 

 Mr. Jobs added that consumers perceived the sleek G4 Cubes as too costly. As a result, the company is now offering $300 rebates on the computer, bringing the price down to $1,499. He also said consumers appeared to think Apple's computers didn't offer enough megahertz power, and said Apple is now working with 

 Motorola 

 Inc. to introduce higher megahertz processors over the next six months. 

 As for sales to schools and universities, Mr. Jobs attributed slower sales to a change in Apple's sales system. In July, the company transitioned from using a contracted sales force to working with a bigger in-house sales team. "The timing certainly wasn't \[smart\]," said Mr. Jobs, adding that Apple "intends to be ready to regain market share" with schools next year. 

 Mr. Jobs painted a rosy picture of future growth, noting that the company plans "a great product line for 2001  <...> it's the best product line I've seen in my career." A lower-priced G4 Cube is likely next spring, for instance. And early next year, Apple plans to officially release its next-generation operating system, Mac OS X, as well as at least two new "breakthrough applications," he said. 

 Mr. Anderson added that Apple plans to "opportunistically buy back stock" and said he expects unit shipments and growth to jump to 10% a quarter over Apple's fiscal 2001 second, third and fourth quarters. 

Document j000000020010807dwaj00rbh




 United Technologies in Talks to Purchase Honeywell In $40.8 Billion Deal 

909 words
19 October 2000
21:47
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -- Shares of Honeywell International Inc., which has been hurt by continuing weakness in many of its industrial-control and chemical businesses, advanced on word it is in talks to be acquired by United Technologies Corp. in a $40.8 billion stock deal. 

 Hartford, Conn.-based United Technologies and Morris Township, N.J.-based Honeywell confirmed the takeover discussions, but didn't elaborate. People familiar with the matter said United Technologies has offered 0.74 share for each share of Honeywell, though the terms will the subject of continuing discussions in meetings expected to continue during the next few days, The Wall Street Journal reported. 

 The deal is expected to be boost United Technologies' earnings by as much as 25 cents a share, excluding any value applied to significant synergies, said those people close to the discussions. 

 In 4 p.m. EDT New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Honeywell (HON) shares rose $2.19, or 6.5%, to $35.88 as reports of the talks surfaced on CNBC in the last hour of regular trading. In after-hours trading, the stock surged to $41.50, according to Reuters Instinet. In 4 p.m. EDT trading, United Technologies (UTX) fell 37 cents to $68 and fell further to $63 in after-hours dealings. 

 The combined company would retain the Honeywell name and Honeywell Chairman and Chief Executive Michael Bosignore would become chairman, while United Technologies Chairman and CEO George David would become CEO. The new company would overnight become a diversified industrial and services giant with big marketing clout and technical expertise ranging from aviation and satellites to industrial automation and chemicals. 

 United Technologies, an industrial conglomerate whose products range from jet engines to elevators, would hold a majority of board seats, a person familiar with the matter said. A headquarters location hasn't been selected. The combined enterprise would have annual revenue of about $50 billion. 

 In the aviation realm, such a merger would create a company with the unprecedented ability to supply commercial and business jets with engines, avionics and communication equipment, along with a wide range of services to help airlines cut maintenance costs and increase profitability. 

 News of the talks comes as Honeywell's industrial-control and specialty-chemicals businesses are posting weak global results, and management has come under increasing pressure from Wall Street to shed or cut costs in those and various other underperforming businesses. 

 "I wish I wasn't where I am in some of these businesses," Mr. Bonsignore told analysts earlier this week, but he stressed that Honeywell was determined to increase profitability, improve cash flow and make the hard decisions to sell lagging operations. 

 Honeywell, which saw its stock plummet and management come under fire after it shocked investors and analysts in June with a profit warning, earlier this week said third-quarter net income dropped 49%. Honeywell, formed by the merger of AlliedSignal Inc. and Honeywell Inc. last year, makes equipment for aerospace systems, power generation, transportation and factory automation, as well as specialty chemicals, plastics, fibers and other industrial materials. 

 United Technologies owns jet-engine maker Pratt & Whitney, the Carrier heating and air-conditioning business and Otis Elevator Co. 

 The two major diversified manufacturers with strikingly similar holdings in aerospace, industrial automation and other lines. 

 Analyst Nicholas Heymann of Prudential Securities said earlier this week that Honeywell and United Technologies would make a perfect merger, because both are interested in "selling complete, integrated systems" to aircraft manufacturers, airlines, building managers, petrochemical plants and other complex industrial facilities. Both also are aggressively pursuing e-business models, he added, and they want to move from supplying parts to providing large-systems integration for customers. 

 "Many of the businesses they are in are rapidly changing," Mr. Heymann said, with both companies pursuing similar strategies. 

 Earlier this year, Robert Johnson, president of Honeywell's aerospace operations, told reporters that the aerospace unit, with about $10 billion a year in revenue, was determined to provide airlines and plane builders "with solutions that go beyond products" to make the air-traffic- control system more efficient and help carriers reduce operating costs by allowing Honeywell to perform many of the tasks that are currently done by the airlines themselves. 

 Mr. Johnson talked about work Honeywell was doing, for example, to develop equipment to better predict clear-air turbulence and allow planes to land closer together at congested airports. "The next frontier that will make us successful," he said, is to "provide more information about what's happening on the plane" through new cockpit and communications technology. 

 One growth area Mr. Johnson singled out was Honeywell's work on providing software, hardware and engineering solutions to allow aircraft passengers to log onto the Internet during flights. 

 Before the merger was disclosed, many analysts speculated that senior Honeywell officials were leaning toward jettisoning underperforming operations, but that they would probably wait until the units' profitability improved and they could fetch a higher price. 

 Monday, Mr. Bonsignore said Honeywell was making plans for a second round of divestitures, on top of some $4 billion in asset sales that have been identified or already are in the works. He said Honeywell was "laying the groundwork" toward predictable revenue growth, and that management wasn't "at all discouraged with the fundamental strength" of the core businesses. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwaj01mk0




 Federal-Mogul 3rd Quarter Report A Letdown, Outlook Dim -Analysts 

 By Jocelyn Parker 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
767 words
19 October 2000
23:07
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 DETROIT -(Dow Jones)- Federal-Mogul Corp.'s (FMO) temporary chief executive Steve Miller says he has a plan of recovery for the ailing company, but analysts are doubtful the company will make a quick comeback. 

 Federal-Mogul reported yet another quarter of disappointing earnings Thursday. The maker of engine seals and bearings said third-quarter earnings were $1 million, or 1 cent a share, a 99% decline from the $78 million, or $1.01 per share, the company reported in the same period a year ago. This excludes restructuring and impairment charges in 2000 and integration and impairment charges in 1999. 

 After these charges, the company reported a loss of 12 cents per share in the third quarter, compared with 91 cents per share gain in the same period a year ago. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial estimated Federal-Mogul would just break even in the third quarter. 

 Last month, the company issued a profit warning saying that its third-quarter bottom line would be about break-even. 

 But Miller delivered even more disheartening news Thursday when he said the company would be in the red in the fourth quarter by 25 cents a share. 

 Many factors that hurt earnings in the third quarter, such as the strength of the dollar against the euro, the lagging replacement parts market and the decline in the heavy-duty truck market, will continue to hamper earnings in the fourth quarter, Miller said. In addition, he said the company wouldn't use discounts to push aftermarket merchandise out in the fourth quarter, which will further depress earnings. 

 Analysts said they were surprised by that news and that it indicates that the company is doing worse than once thought. 

 Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown auto parts analyst Kenneth Blaschke said he expected the company to earn 6 cents per share in the fourth quarter. 

 Federal-Mogul went on a buying spree in 1998 and is now suffering under the weight of numerous acquisitions. The company spent about $4.9 billion to buy companies such as Cooper Industries Inc.'s (CBE) replacement auto-parts unit and T&N PLC. 

 Nearly a year after the acquisitions, the company issued a profitwarning because the replacement parts business began to decline. Analysts say the $1.9 billion Federal-Mogul spent for Cooper was too much. 

 The company has also been under fire for continuing asbestos liability payments from its T&N acquisition. Analysts say the payments have been draining the company's cash flow and that the payments haven't been going down. 

 For the past several quarters, Federal-Mogul has missed earnings estimates and last month Richard Snell, the former chief executive, stepped down. 

 Steve Miller is acting chief executive until the company finds a replacement. Miller said in the conference call that the search hasn't found anyone yet. 

 In the meantime, Miller said he has formed a set of initiatives for the company, which include reorganizing the company's replacement parts businesses, consolidating North American distribution and institutionalizing an investment strategy. 

 Miller said despite the company's problems, the company will be cash-flow positive in the fourth quarter. 

 Analysts contend that there won't be a quick turnaround for Federal-Mogul given the negative trends in the industry and the continuing asbestos payments. 

 "I don't see a magic silver bullet," said Eric Goldstein, an analyst with Bear Stearns & Co. "The heavy-truck market is weakening, the aftermarket probably won't turnaround and there are currency difficulties. If the company is not careful, bankruptcy could be a possibility." 

 Investors appeared to be concerned about such a possibility recently. Federal-Mogul shares recently skidded dramatically after Owens Corning filed for bankruptcy because of mounting asbestos claims. Investors were concerned that Federal-Mogul could face such as possibility. 

 The stock made a comeback, however, after Federal-Mogul said it had adequate reserves and insurance to handle the payments. In a conference call Thursday, Miller said the company has $1.2 billion in reserves and $800 million in reinsurance for the asbestos claims. 

 Still analysts remain concerned about asbestos liability because it will drain cash flow in 2001. Blaschke said although he expects Federal-Mogul's earnings per share to be above zero in 2001, he expects cash flow to be negative due to the asbestos payments. 

 "This clearly puts them at greater risk because they will be unable to reduce debt," Blaschke said. 

 -By Jocelyn Parker, Dow Jones Newswires, 313-963-7810 

Document dj00000020010805dwaj03yx9




 UPDATE 2-Ingersoll-Rand sees full year on low end of range. 

503 words
18 October 2000
16:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 WOODCLIFF LAKE, N.J., Oct 18 (Reuters) - Multinational manufacturer Ingersoll-Rand Co. on Wednesday reported a modest increase in operating earnings per share, narrowly beating Wall Street estimates, but warned that full-year profits would fall in the lower end of its previously stated range between $3.75 to $3.85 per share. 

 In an effort to cut costs, the company said it will reduce its workforce by 4,000 employees, or about 8 percent, as part of a broadly based programme initiated in the most recent quarter. Under the plan, the company will shut down 51 plants, 18 of which will be manufacturing facilities. It also includes organisational realignments and the consolidation of its back office. 

 The company said it will take a total pretax charge of about $325 million over the next 5 quarters. After-tax charges for the restructuring and productivity investments for the third quarter totalled $39.1 million. 

 Woodcliff Lake, N.J.-based Ingersoll-Rand, whose products range from golf carts to air compressors, last month warned of a third-quarter shortfall, citing soft demand for infrastructure-related equipment and a weak euro. 

 On Wednesday, it said it expected continued soft demand in the North American and European truck and trailer markets, as well as slowing activity in U.S. construction and auto and light truck markets. 

 "The current economic environment has slowed compared to the robust pace Ingersoll-Rand enjoyed during the first half of 2000," chairman, president and chief executive Herbert Henkel said in a statement. "We are now operating in a market characterised by a depressed euro, more difficult credit and oil prices that are double year-ago prices." 

 As a result, he said, the company is likely to report a full year profit near $3.75 per share, compared with $3.57 per share in 1999. 

 According to First Call/Thomson Financial, the mean estimate for 2000 was $3.78 per share. 

 For the quarter, the company said operating earnings, excluding one-time gains and charges related to restructuring, were $139.6 million, or 86 cents per diluted share, in the latest quarter, compared with $132.8 million, or 80 cents, a year ago. 

 The consensus Wall Street estimate was 85 cents a share, which was downwardly revised after the Sept. 19 profit warning, First Call said. 

 Ingersoll-Rand said third-quarter revenues from continuing operations rose 22 percent to $2.26 billion from $1.85 billion a year ago. Revenue gains were led by a 6 percent rise in revenues from its industrial productivity sector, which includes equipment for compressed air systems and motion control technologies for aftermarket applications in the automotive and industrial markets. 

 Ingersoll-Rand shares were down 13/16 at midmorning on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday to $31-1/4, off the day's worst level, but still at the lowest closing price since April 1997. They have tumbled about 45 percent since Jan. 7. 

Document lba0000020010822dwai03zkb




 RESEARCH ALERT - CSFB cuts RF Micro rating. 

213 words
18 October 2000
15:52
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 18 (Reuters) - Credit Suisse First Boston said on Wednesday that it downgraded RF Micro Devices Inc. , a developer of integrated circuites for wireless services, to buy from strong buy after the company's second quarter results and a December quarter profit warning. 

 RF Micro Devices shares fell 29.62 percent or $6-13/16 to $15-3/16. CIBC also cut its ratings on RF Micro Devices to hold from strong buy. 

 Credit Suisse First Boston analyst Charlie Glavin lowered the fiscal 2001 earnings estimate to 31 cents a share from 43 cents and fiscal 2002 estimate to 43 cents a share from 62 cents. Glavin cited "slower revenue growth coupled with gross margin pressure" for the estimate cuts. 

 Glavin cut the price target on the Greensboro, N.C.-based company to $30 a share until demand fundamentals improve. 

 In the second quarter ended September, RF Micro Devices said its revenues rose to $102.2 million from $68.9 million and earnings met estimates of 10 cents a share. 

 RF Micro said when it reported its results Oct. 17 that it expects third quarter revenues to fall 20 percent from the second quarter and earnings should be four or five cents per share. 

Document lba0000020010822dwai03y43




 UPDATE 2-IBM off lows in Asia, Intel flat. 

352 words
18 October 2000
07:54
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 TOKYO, Oct 18 (Reuters) - Shares of International Business Machines Corp (IBM) recovered some ground in after-hours trading on Wednesday in Asia after losing more than 12 percent on disappointing earnings results which came after the bell. 

 Shares in the world's largest computer maker were last traded on the Instinet electronic brokerage system around $101 as of 0600 GMT, above the $99 low posted after a regular close of $113. 

 But activity was slim in Asia with investors cautious ahead of the opening of regular sessions in U.S. stock markets later in the day. 

 On the Tokyo Stock Exchange's foreign company section, IBM ended at 11,200 yen, down 710 or 5.96 percent, on meagre turnover of 5,960 shares. 

 IBM's shaky share performance rattled core high-tech issues in Tokyo and the rest of Asia, helping shave more than three percent off the key Nikkei 225 share average to 14,872.48, its weakest close in 19 months. 

 IBM announced its keenly awaited earnings results after the bell on Tuesday, saying its third-quarter sales rose three percent to $21.8 billion, missing analysts' forecast of $22.4 billion. The stock price quickly tumbled on Instinet. 

 During Tuesday's regular session, IBM rose 1.69 percent while other technology stocks were sold as fears of slowing earnings battered computer chip makers and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor Index plummeted 9.29 percent. 

 The tech-laden Nasdaq index slipped 2.32 percent on Tuesday, extending Monday's 0.80 percent loss. 

 The world's biggest chip maker, Intel Corp, also reported third-quarter profits after the regular session close. 

 The company said net profits surged 52 percent to $2.9 billion, outperforming market expectations, which had diminished after its revenue warning last month. 

 The results pushed the share price firmer to around $38 on Instinet early on Wednesday in Asia before stabilising around $36 as of 0630 GMT from the regular close of $36-3/16. 

 Intel's shares had plunged about 50 percent since the profit warning. 

Document lba0000020010822dwai03y14




 UPDATE 1-Michaels Stores shares plummet on warning. 

 By Anna Driver 
352 words
18 October 2000
18:29
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Oct 18 (Reuters) - Arts and crafts retailer Michaels Stores Inc. saw its shares fall 43 percent on Wednesday, after the company lowered its third-quarter earnings forecast by about 11 percent and cut its October same-store sales outlook due to weak sales trends and a slowing economy. 

 The Irving, Texas-based company expects third-quarter profits of 40 cents a share, 5 cents below its previous forecast of 45 cents, the company said. Analysts, on average, expected earnings of 45 cents in the quarter, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Shares of Irving, Texas-based Michaels fell to a fresh 52-week low of $18 before coming back a bit to trade off $15-6/16 at $20-1/16. 

 Michaels dropped its same-store sales forecast for October and sees results flat compared with the same month last year. 

 "Recently, we have seen significantly softer sales trends, which we attribute to general economic conditions and uncertainties," Michael Rouleau, chief executive officer of Michaels, said in a statement. "We are well prepared for the fourth quarter; however, if there is a continuation of these trends, our fourth-quarter earnings will be negatively impacted." 

 For third-and fourth-quarter same-store sales, Michaels sees increases of 1 to 2 percent and 3 to 5 percent, respectively. 

 The company also lowered its 2001 earnings forecast to $2.40 a share, below the current Wall Street consensus estimate of $2.58. 

 Analysts said the profit warning from Michaels was a sign that shoppers are pulling back on purchases and had little to do with the retailer's execution. 

 "They said the problem was slower store traffic," William Armstrong, analyst with PMG Capital, said. "They weren't doing anything different either on pricing, promotional calendar or merchandising. There's definitely something to the idea that consumer spending is slowing down." 

 Michaels, which operates 619 Michaels stores as well as 112 Aaron Brothers stores, plans to release October 2000 sales on November 2, and will release third quarter earnings on November 21. 

Document lba0000020010822dwai03xv5




 Dow down but off lows, Nasdaq up as IBM, CPI still press. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
1,088 words
18 October 2000
18:07
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Refiling to remove superfluous para at line 38 that reads, "The Nasdaq, meanwhile, moved in and out of positive ... ") (Updates to midday) 

 NEW YORK, Oct 18 (Reuters) - U.S. blue-chip stocks stayed in the red, but the tech-heavy Nasdaq had ventured back up onto positive ground by midday on Wednesday after substantial morning losses that pounded the Dow average to a 19-month intraday low. 

 The Dow's big downdraft was triggered in part by news of disappointing sales by computer titan International Business Machines Corp., which reignited fears that other companies would follow suit. 

 "It was a gut-wrenching opening, but a lot of investors hoped that this represented capitulation lows, there is now an attempt to bounce ... but never trust action before lunch," said Arnold Berman, technology strategist at Wit SoundView. 

 At midday, the Dow remained under the critical 10,000 mark, which was breached for the first time in seven months shortly after the opening bell. 

 Meanwhile, the technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index recovered from a drop of nearly 200 points, breaking onto positive ground by midday. The Nasdaq was up 16 points, or 0.52 percent, to 3,230. 

 "It was a terrible opening because the bellwether reports gave you no reason to feel conviction about anything in the world," Berman said. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average , the closely watched gauge of 30 blue-chip companies, was down 107 points, or 1.07 percent, at 9,981, off the session low of 9,654.64. The steep drop after Wednesday's opening was the first time the Dow fell below the psychologically important 10,000 watermark since March 15, 2000. 

 The intraday low the Dow reached in the morning was a level unseen since March 1999. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index also cut its losses, to down 3 points, or 0.24 percent, at 1,346. 

 The selling pressure just piled on and picked up speed after economic data early in the day showed the U.S. Consumer Price Index for September, a gauge of inflation at the consumer price level, grew 0.5 percent - exceeding the market's expectations for a gain of 0.4 percent. Rising energy prices were the culprit. This could be seen by some that the inflation-fighting U.S. Federal Reserve may not be done with its campaign of interest-rate hikes to cool the economy. 

 The New York Stock Exchange said index-arbitrage trading curbs were triggered at 9:45 a.m. EDT (1345 GMT) when the Dow dropped more than 210 points 

 "I don't want to say this bounce off the bottom is important, although it is pleasant ... You need more evidence and fundamental improvement and stability to get that," Berman said. 

 Analysts said the day's performance was likely to track the slew of corporate results due on Wednesday, one of the heavier corporate reporting days, including the results of many market heavyweights and second-tier companies as well. 

 "A lot of these companies are starting to warn of single-digit revenue growth and sometimes declining revenue growth," said Peter Gottlieb, vice president and portfolio manager at First Albany Asset Management. 

 "I think the market is waking up and saying that the growth rates of these businesses aren't necessarily linear anymore." 

 But some of the plunge may have been exaggerated by mutual funds closing out books at the end of October, Gottlieb said. 

 "You have a real breakdown in a lot of stocks that have gone way beyond what people expected, and that's something that is very unnerving," Gottlieb said. "I do see a chance for a rebound. I think that you're going to see some buying." 

 Market breadth was still overwhelmingly negative, with about three stocks falling for every one that rose on the Big Board. The ratio on Nasdaq was 5 to 2 in favour of the losers. 

 IBM was still deeply in the red, but off the lows, down $17-7/16 at $96-9/16 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Also hit hard were the interest-rate-sensitive financials, with J.P. Morgan , a Dow component, last off $1-1/8 at $136-1/2, after falling more than 18 points earlier. J.P. Morgan's loss followed disappointing earnings posted Wednesday by its merger partner Chase Manhattan , which was hurt by investment losses. 

 The steep losses of IBM and J.P. Morgan, combined, accounted for two-thirds of the Dow's plunge at one point - at their lowest, lopping about 200 points off the Dow. 

 The pressure from IBM spread to related stocks, with Dow component Hewlett-Packard Co. down $2-5/16 at $88-3/16. 

 But the S&P Computer Hardware Index which tracks IBM and a host of other computer makers, continued to rebound, cutting its loss to 3.07 percent by midday from an earlier 9.81 percent plunge as some components moved back into the black. 

 A batch of negative comments on IBM came from Wall Street houses. Merrill Lynch cut IBM's 12-month price target by $14 a share to $130, while Sanford C. Bernstein told clients in a research note they should not buy IBM shares, adding "there is simply too much uncertainty" around the computing giant. 

 The IBM disappointment overshadowed better results from No. 1 chip maker Intel Corp. , which reported that its third-quarter earnings rose 52 percent, topping recently lowered expectations. Intel shares were up $2-9/16 at $38-3/4, giving a boost to both the Dow and the Nasdaq. 

 Adding to the market pressure was the falling euro, the Europe's single currency, which hit another low against the dollar. The weak euro has been one of the main factors cited by big companies warning of slowing revenues and profit growth. 

 Semi-conductors were leading the Nasdaq rebound, with the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index , which groups some of Nasdaq's biggest names, up 2.93 percent. 

 The shares of WorldCom Inc. , one of the Nasdaq heavyweights, rose 11 percent, up $2-1/2 at $24-5/16, after sources familiar with the firm told Reuters that the telecommunications company was likely to create a separate stock for its slow-growing consumer business rather than try to sell it. This would be cheaper than a sale, the sources said, and would enable WorldCom's data and Internet services to grow even faster. 

Document lba0000020010822dwai03xrg




 Honeywell's 3rd-Quarter Earnings Fell 49% Amid Disappointing Sales 

 By Andy Pasztor 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
595 words
18 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A8
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Honeywell International Inc., hurt by lower-than-expected revenue, various restructuring charges and continuing weakness in many of its industrial-control and chemical businesses, said third-quarter net income dropped 49% to $282 million. 

 But the exclusion of a number of one-time items, the impact of previously announced cost savings and other initiatives helped produce operating earnings in line with scaled-back Wall Street expectations. Honeywell, which saw its stock plummet and management come under fire from the investment community after a surprise summer earnings skid, reiterated that it expects to meet its revised revenue and profit projections for the current quarter. 

 Chairman Michael Bonsignore said asset sales already announced or in the works will yield about $4 billion and should be largely completed by the middle of next year. After that, he said, Honeywell anticipates launching a second, "smaller wave of portfolio divestitures" to further focus its operations. He declined to elaborate. 

 Total sales in the quarter were $6.22 billion, up 3% from $6.04 billion in the year-earlier period, which Mr. Bonsignore acknowledged "was lighter than we had expected" and continued the disappointing pattern of the previous two periods. Without added revenue from a recent acquisition, internal growth companywide was flat at best, according to some analysts. Even core aerospace sales, while continuing to yield hefty margins, dropped nearly 3% and "don't reflect what this business could become" once recent orders and synergies from Honeywell's December 1999 merger with AlliedSignal Inc. are fully realized, Mr. Bonsignore said. Repair and overhaul work partially helped offset lower demand from jetliner builders. 

 In the quarter, net income was 35 cents a diluted share, compared with $554 million, or 68 cents a diluted share, a year earlier. While avoiding major negative surprises, the results nonetheless highlight that some segments, especially automotive power products, "aren't motoring along as well as they would like," according to Howard Rubel, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group. 

 After shocking investors and analysts in June with a negative profitwarning, Honeywell reported third-quarter earnings from ongoing operations of $613 million, or 76 cents a share, up from a comparable 68 cents a share last year, in line with Wall Street's reduced expectations. 

 The company also said full-year profit would be between $3 and $3.02 a share, again within the range of recent projections by analysts. Fourth-quarter revenue is expected to increase by about 5%. However, the outlook for 2001 is less clear, particularly because high oil prices are likely to continue depressing specialty-chemical earnings, and some analysts believe that an upturn in building-controls and industrial-automation orders may not materialize as rapidly as the Morris Township, N.J., manufacturer anticipates. "We're facing some pockets of weakness," Mr. Bonsignore told analysts. 

 Management hasn't specifically said "they're happy with the existing" mix of businesses, said Paul Nisbet, an analyst at JSA Research Inc. Reflecting the cautious view of many analysts, Mr. Nisbet lowered slightly his per-share earnings projections through 2004 but reiterated a buy rating for the stock. 

 Mr. Bonsignore and his managers are betting that accelerating growth in aerospace sales, coupled with projected merger-related savings and cost-reductions amounting to $250 million by the end of the year, will supply much of the momentum to help Honeywell meet future targets. For all of 2001, the company projects between 10% and 15% growth in earnings per share. 

Document j000000020010807dwai00rat




 CNF Transportation's Net Income Fell 37%, Hurt By Weakness At Emery Unit 

523 words
18 October 2000
14:05
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 PALO ALTO, Calif. -- CNF Transportation Inc., as expected, reported a sharp decline in third-quarter net income, hampered by weakness at its Emery Worlwide unit. 

 The Palo Alto, Calif.-based transportation company said net income declined 37% to $27.7 million, or 48 cents a share, compared with $44.2 million, or 77 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Revenue jumped 8.5% to $1.53 billion from $1.41 billion. 

 Results in the latest quarter included nonrecurring charges related to the sale of certain assets of its Con-Way Truckload Services unit and losses on terminated aircraft leases at Emery Worldwide. Excluding those items, the company said it would have reported earnings of about $35.8 million, or 66 cents a share. 

 The company's per-share earnings beat analysts lowered expectations. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected earnings of about 64 cents a share. Before an earnings warning in September, analysts had expected a profit of 80 cents a share. 

 CNF warned last month that it expected to report third-quarter earnings from operations of between 61 cents to 66 cents a share because of lower-than-expected profits for Emery Worldwide. The company had cited a slowdown in U.S. demand for heavy-weight air freight shipments and higher-than-normal North American operating and maintenance costs for the anticipated weak earnings at the unit. 

 Emery Worldwide reported a 73% drop in operating income, before nonrecurring charges, of $6.1 million from $22.6 million. Including the nonrecurring charges for losses on terminated aircraft leases, Emery Worldwide reported a loss from operations of $5.8 million, as revenue increased 6.5% to $657.5 million. 

 CNF said Emery's U.S. domestic business results remain below expectations, more than offsetting good results posted by its international group. Emery's North American air freight revenue fell 7%, but international revenue rose 15%. 

 Before nonrecurring charges, operating income at CNF's Con-Way unit inched up 1% to $57.6 million from $56.9 million. Including the nonrecurring charge for the sale of the truckload assets, operating income came to $52.2 million. Revenue for the unit rose 5.5% to $518.1 million. 

 Meanwhile, the company said it is continuing to work with the U.S. Postal Service to resolve pricing and operational issues involving the Priority Mail contract. 

 Recently, the U.S. Postal Service agreed to pay the company higher rates for handling mail, ending a lengthy dispute. Emery had sued the Postal Service for breach of contract in April, claiming it is was spending more to fulfill a priority mail contract than it was being paid. 

 CNF said it will continue to recognize unbilled revenue until final rates have been determined. The company recognized $21 million of unbilled revenue in the third quarter. 

 The company said Emery Worldwide Airlines and the Postal Service have had fruitful negotiations toward resolving many issues in dispute and that a settlement may be near. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwai01m73




 UPDATE 2-Caterpillar Q3 flat, sees rising revenues. 

 By Debra Sherman 
613 words
17 October 2000
18:40
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Recasts lead, adds detail para 2, company interview paras 3, 6-7, 14-16, updates share price par 13, byline, pvs PEORIA, Ill.) 

 CHICAGO, Oct 17 (Reuters) - Caterpillar Inc. , the world's largest maker of earth-moving equipment, on Tuesday reported its third-quarter per share profit narrowly beat recently lowered estimates after softness in key markets, higher costs and unfavourable currency translations took their toll. 

 Caterpillar, which also manufacturers diesel engines, solar gas turbines and related products, said it expected revenue in 2000 and 2001 to rise between 2 and 7 percent. However, further increases in U.S. interest rates could threaten that outlook. 

 "At the moment, we do not have anything plugged in for continued increases in (U.S.) interest rates, so you could say there would be a risk if rates started to rise again," Caterpillar's chief financial officer F. Lynn McFeeters told Reuters in an interview. 

 Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar, which warned analysts two weeks ago that it would not meet third-quarter profit forecasts at the time, said it earned $216 million, or 62 cents per share, on revenue of $4.78 billion in the latest quarter. That compares with $219 million, or 61 cents, on revenue of $4.72 billion in the year-ago period. 

 According to a First Call/Thomson Financial survey, the mean estimate was for a 58 cent profit per share. Analysts trimmed their estimates by 10 cents after the company issued its warning last month. 

 McFeeters said he expects the truck engine business to bottom out this quarter, hold flat during the first half of 2001 and improve in the second half. 

 Another trouble spot in the latest quarter was Caterpillar's North American construction machinery market. McFeeters said that market was likely to be soft again in 2001 and then, depending on economic growth, might put in a bottom at the end of 2001. 

 In addition to the weakness in some of its key markets, Caterpillar said its performance also was undermined by unfavourable currency impact and costs related to selling, general and administrative (SG&A), and research and development (R&D). 

 The favourable impacts of a tax adjustment, improved price realisation (excluding currency) and higher sales volume largely offset the unfavourable items. 

 In a statement, Caterpillar's chairman and chief executive Glen Barton said, "In response to these conditions, we have redoubled efforts to reduce costs to ensure we deliver acceptable results for the full year." 

 Caterpillar reiterated that its outlook for 2000 remained unchanged, with revenue to increase "slightly" and profit to improve "moderately," despite the softness in the third quarter. 

 For 2000, analysts on average were forecasting a profit of $2.88 per share, up from $2.63 per share in 1999. 

 At midday, Caterpillar shares were down $1 to $30-15/16, the lowest level since early 1996. The shares have more than halved since peaking in April 1999. 

 Asked about the sharp decline in Caterpillar's shares, McFeeters said, "Our diversification story that we've been building over the years is being played out." 

 He noted that while its truck engine business is off, its power generation business is strong. The company also is benefiting from a resurgence in oil and gas prices, he said. He noted that its financial services business is strong as well, and that even though its North American construction machinery market is weak, the rest of the world is picking up. 

 "We think we've taken a lot of the cyclicality out of the business and you would think the market would look favourably on that," he said. 

Document lba0000020010822dwah03zzu




 UPDATE 2-Caterpillar Q3 flat, sees rising revenues. 

 By Debra Sherman 
613 words
17 October 2000
18:39
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Recasts lead, adds detail para 2, company interview paras 3, 6-7, 14-16, updates share price par 13, byline, pvs PEORIA, Ill.) 

 CHICAGO, Oct 17 (Reuters) - Caterpillar Inc. , the world's largest maker of earth-moving equipment, on Tuesday reported its third-quarter per share profit narrowly beat recently lowered estimates after softness in key markets, higher costs and unfavourable currency translations took their toll. 

 Caterpillar, which also manufacturers diesel engines, solar gas turbines and related products, said it expected revenue in 2000 and 2001 to rise between 2 and 7 percent. However, further increases in U.S. interest rates could threaten that outlook. 

 "At the moment, we do not have anything plugged in for continued increases in (U.S.) interest rates, so you could say there would be a risk if rates started to rise again," Caterpillar's chief financial officer F. Lynn McFeeters told Reuters in an interview. 

 Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar, which warned analysts two weeks ago that it would not meet third-quarter profit forecasts at the time, said it earned $216 million, or 62 cents per share, on revenue of $4.78 billion in the latest quarter. That compares with $219 million, or 61 cents, on revenue of $4.72 billion in the year-ago period. 

 According to a First Call/Thomson Financial survey, the mean estimate was for a 58 cent profit per share. Analysts trimmed their estimates by 10 cents after the company issued its warning last month. 

 McFeeters said he expects the truck engine business to bottom out this quarter, hold flat during the first half of 2001 and improve in the second half. 

 Another trouble spot in the latest quarter was Caterpillar's North American construction machinery market. McFeeters said that market was likely to be soft again in 2001 and then, depending on economic growth, might put in a bottom at the end of 2001. 

 In addition to the weakness in some of its key markets, Caterpillar said its performance also was undermined by unfavourable currency impact and costs related to selling, general and administrative (SG&A), and research and development (R&D). 

 The favourable impacts of a tax adjustment, improved price realisation (excluding currency) and higher sales volume largely offset the unfavourable items. 

 In a statement, Caterpillar's chairman and chief executive Glen Barton said, "In response to these conditions, we have redoubled efforts to reduce costs to ensure we deliver acceptable results for the full year." 

 Caterpillar reiterated that its outlook for 2000 remained unchanged, with revenue to increase "slightly" and profit to improve "moderately," despite the softness in the third quarter. 

 For 2000, analysts on average were forecasting a profit of $2.88 per share, up from $2.63 per share in 1999. 

 At midday, Caterpillar shares were down $1 to $30-15/16, the lowest level since early 1996. The shares have more than halved since peaking in April 1999. 

 Asked about the sharp decline in Caterpillar's shares, McFeeters said, "Our diversification story that we've been building over the years is being played out." 

 He noted that while its truck engine business is off, its power generation business is strong. The company also is benefiting from a resurgence in oil and gas prices, he said. He noted that its financial services business is strong as well, and that even though its North American construction machinery market is weak, the rest of the world is picking up. 

 "We think we've taken a lot of the cyclicality out of the business and you would think the market would look favourably on that," he said. 

Document lba0000020010822dwah03zka




 WSJ.COM WRAP: Caterpillar's 3rd Quarter Net Slips, Hurt By Dollar 

416 words
17 October 2000
16:13
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   WSJ.com Roundup



NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) reported that net income
slipped 1.4% amid a stronger dollar and lower sales of engines to North
American truck manufacturers. The results exceeded Wall Street
estimates, which were recently lowered.


 The heavy-equipment maker posted net income of $216 million, or 62 cents a diluted share, compared with $219 million, or 61 cents a share, a year earlier. The company had about 3.8% more shares outstanding in the year-earlier quarter. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial expected Caterpillar to earn 58 cents a share in the latest period. 

 Before the company issued a profit warning in late September, analysts had expected a profit of 68 cents. 

 Revenue rose 1.4% to $4.78 billion from $4.72 billion. "The third quarter was a challenging one, especially considering the continued strength of the dollar and softness in key markets," said Glen Barton, chairman and chief executive, in a prepared statement. 

 "In response to these conditions, we have redoubled efforts to reduce costs to ensure we deliver acceptable results for the full year. Further, our geographic and product diversity is a major strength, and we continue to benefit from the unprecedented demand for electric power and energy development applications," Barton said. 

 The company expects full-year 2000 sales to be "slightly higher" than in 1999 and profit to "increase moderately." Caterpillar expects a "slight increase" in sales in 2001. 

 Machinery sales in the current quarter rose 4% to $2.78 billion, with strength in North America, Latin America, and the Europe, Africa and the Middle East regions offsetting lower sales in the Asia Pacific region, where sales were down 13%. 

 Engine sales fell 5% to $1.68 billion. The company blamed the decline on sharply lower industry sales of engines to North American truck manufacturers. Caterpillar added that global demand for electric-power products continued to grow strongly, particularly in North America, and sales to petroleum industries also rose. 

 Caterpillar warned in late September that third-quarter earnings would be 15% less than the 68 cents a share that many analysts had expected. The company at the time blamed a variety of factors, from weak European currencies to continued softness in the North American construction industry to "significant and accelerating" weakness in the truck-engine market. 

 (For continuously updated news from The Wall Street Journal, see WSJ.com at http://wsj.com.) 

Document dj00000020010805dwah03wxn




 Dana: Expects Less Production, Sees Work-Force Cuts 

 By Jocelyn Parker 
366 words
17 October 2000
14:47
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 

 DETROIT -(Dow Jones)- The fourth quarter and 2001 will be rocky, auto-parts supplier Dana Corp. (DCN) officials said in a media conference call Tuesday. 

 Unscheduled production cuts, softness in the aftermarket, the strength of the dollar against the euro and a weak heavy-truck market are expected to plague Dana in the fourth quarter and beyond, officials said. 

 The company said it remains "guarded" in the fourth quarter, but declined to give further guidance. 

 Dana officials said the auto makers are expecting to build 17.2 million vehicles in 2001, but Dana said it sees the industry at 16.5 million vehicles, which would result in fewer sales next year. 


   Dana Chief Executive Joe Magliochetti said he was disappointed by
the company's third-quarter results.



The company reported third-quarter earnings of $29 million, or 19
cents a share, an 82% decrease from the $162 million, or 97 cents per
share, the company earned in the same period a year ago.



Excluding nonrecurring charges of $32 million tied to a plant closing,
Dana earned $61 million, or 41 cents a share, in the third quarter. That
was 1 cent shy of the First Call/Thomson Financial analysts' consensus
projection of 42 cents a share, and down from the year-ago earnings
figure of $1.03 a share.



"It has been a challenging third quarter," Magliochetti said. "There's
little question that we were not satisfied with our performance."



The company issued a profit warning in September that the company
would miss third-quarter estimates because of currency exchange issues,
the decline in the replacement-parts market and production cuts at Ford
Motor Co. (F).



The company said it plans to remedy some of its financial problems
with share buybacks, workforce reductions and divesting non-core
businesses.



Already the company has said that it's making workforce reductions
totaling more than 3,500 employees.



Year to date, the company said it repurchased 15.5 million shares
worth $381 million. The company has $120 million in approved shares
remaining for the buyback program.



-Jocelyn Parker, Dow Jones Newswires; 313-963-7810


Document dj00000020010805dwah03wrd




 Dana's 3rd Quarter Results Disappointing And 4th Quarter May Be Worse 

 By Jocelyn Parker 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
667 words
17 October 2000
23:53
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 DETROIT -(Dow Jones)- Dana Corp.'s (DCN) third-quarter earnings seem to fit right in with most auto suppliers' results - disappointing. 

 And a dim outlook for the fourth quarter and beyond appears to be one more thing the company has in common with other companies in its sector. 

 "I think you'll get similar comments from other major suppliers to the OEMs (original equipment manufacturers)," said PaineWebber Inc. analyst Joseph Phillippi. "There aren't going to be too many that stand out." 

 On Tuesday, Dana reported third-quarter earnings that were 82% below last year's results. The company reported net income of $29 million, or 19 cents a share, compared with $162 million, or 97 cents, in the same period a year ago. Excluding charges related to the closing of the company's Reading, Pa., facility, the company earned $61 million, or 41 cents a share. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial estimated that Dana would earn 42 cents a share in the third quarter. 

 "It's been a challenging third quarter," said Dana Chief Executive Joe Magliochetti in a conference call Tuesday. "There's little question that we were not satisfied with our performance." 

 Dana officials blamed the company's performance on a weak replacement parts market, a decline in the heavy-duty truck market, the strength of the dollar against the euro and production cuts at Ford Motor Co. (F). 

 The company issued a profit warning in September saying that it would miss estimates because of these problems. 

 Analysts have also predicted that suppliers would struggle in the second half of the year due to many of these factors, but Dana is in somewhat of a worse position because the company is involved in many types of businesses, which leaves it exposed to several problems. 

 "Dana got hit by a host of negative factors all at once," said Efraim Levy, an auto analyst with S&P Equity Group. "They have a variety of product lines." 

 In addition to those factors, analysts say Dana has also been saddled with restructuring costs from its replacement parts factory distribution business. The company also has faced software problems, which have caused it to pick up more inventory, Phillippi said. 

 And the company painted a rather dreary picture for the fourth quarter and 2001. 

 The company said it would remain "guarded" in the fourth quarter about its earnings. Phillippi said analysts expect sales to be "a few hundred million dollars" below the $3.2 billion the company had in sales in the fourth quarter of 1999. 

 Part of the decline is due to continuing production cuts in the auto industry as vehicle sales soften, the company said. In the conference call, Dana said the auto makers expect to build 17.2 million vehicles in 2001, but Dana sees the industry at 16.5 million vehicles, which would result in fewer sales next year. 

 "The fourth-quarter guidance was surprising," Phillippi said. "We are looking at a revenue base well below expectations." 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial estimate that Dana will earn 57 cents a share in the fourth quarter. But analysts suggest the estimate may come down in light of Tuesday's results. 

 Phillippi said he's still calculating his fourth-quarter estimate, and Levy said his estimate is likely to decrease. Levy declined to give his original fourth-quarter estimate. 

 To offset some of these issues, the company said that it's divesting non-core businesses, cutting its work force and buying back shares. 

 The company said that it's already making work force cuts that will result in a total reduction of more than 3,500 employees. 

 Still, this will make little difference in Dana's overall picture, given the industry-wide impediments, analysts say. 

 "It takes time for negative trends to correct themselves," Levy said. 

 -Jocelyn Parker, Dow Jones Newswires; 313-963-7810 

Document dj00000020010805dwah03wi4




 Software Maker Marimba Reports 3rd-Quarter Loss In Line With Warning 

196 words
16 October 2000
21:43
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -(Dow Jones)- Internet-software developer Marimba Inc. reported a third-quarter loss in line with a warning it issued earlier this month. 

 Marimba (MRBA) posted a net loss of $4.2 million, or 18 cents a share, compared with a net loss of $580,000, or three cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Revenue rose 21% to $10.1 million. 

 Excluding acquisition-related expenses, the company said it would have posted a loss of 15 cents a share, compared with a loss of one cent a share a year earlier. 

 Before issuing its warning on Oct. 5, analysts were expecting a profit on revenue of about $12.5 million. At the time, Marimba blamed the shortfall on several large deals that it failed to close in the third quarter, some of which it expects to complete in the fourth quarter. 

 "While our near-term outlook is cautious, we remain confident of Marimba's long-term business strategy," president and chief executive John Olsen in a prepared statement issued Monday. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwag01lss




 Rolls-Royce Shares Go Nowhere Despite A3XX Engine Contract 

 By Robb M. Stewart 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
908 words
16 October 2000
15:48
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)- To borrow a phrase, what's good for European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (N.EAD) isn't necessarily good for Rolls-Royce PLC (U.RR). 

 Shares in the British aero-engine maker continue to track levels not seen for almost five years and the market appears unwilling to forgive them following the company's profit-warning August. 

 Even last week's deal to power superjumbo A3XX airliners ordered by Singapore Airlines Ltd. (P.SAL), potentially worth $1.5 billion, hasn't budged investors. Instead, worries over the impact of the planned new engine now weigh on the shares. 

 This is ironic considering the order by Singapore Airlines of Airbus Industrie's (F.ABI) proposed A3XX buoyed shares in EADS, the largest shareholder of and virtually a proxy for unlisted Airbus. 

 One camp of observers say that reaction is hypocritical, while others argue the engines order changes nothing at Rolls-Royce, despite the decline in its shares and the bad news it got out of the way almost two months ago. 

 "I'm a big fan in terms of valuation," said a London-based analyst, "but now I'm too scared of market sentiment to buy". 

 He and others admit there is little they could say to convince investors to get back into Rolls-Royce. 

 Singapore Airlines Friday unveiled Rolls-Royce as its engine supplier for the 10 firm orders and 15 options on the A3XX, marking Rolls' planned Trent 900 engine as the sole power plant for initial production of the aircraft. 

 The Trent was competing against the GP 7000 being offered jointly by rivals General Electric Co. (GE) and United Technologies Corp.'s (UTX) Pratt & Whitney. 

 Rolls-Royce already has been chosen to power the five A3XX ordered by International Lease Finance Corp., a unit of American International Group Inc. (AIG). 

 Both aircraft orders were seen as significant boons for EADS and the Airbus program, coming as they did from a long-established bellwether buyer for big jets and an aircraft leasing firm which hadn't yet arranged buyers. 

 Further orders for the A3XX are expected before year- end, enough to bring the total to roughly 50 and cement the business case for Airbus to proceed with the launch of the superjumbo. And many analysts anticipate Rolls-Royce will win the majority of the engine business. 


 More Engine Contracts Expected But Costs Seen Higher



"This is good and bad news," said Schroder Salomon Smith Barney
analyst Nick Cunningham.



On the plus side, he said, Rolls-Royce should see reasonable volumes
from sales of engines for the A3XX despite it being something of a niche
product.



But on the downside, Rolls faces $500 million or more in development
costs and a cash negative period if it proceeds with the Trent 900,
Cunningham said.



"It raises the risk, and the market finds that unwelcome," he said.



Teather & Greenwood's Adrian Murray, however, said that if Rolls
weren't winning these orders, its share price may not have leveled out
and could have kept declining.



He sees the orders as good news - on a more than 10-year view. He
noted that high-margin spares don't start to come through for about
seven years.



The assumption is that Rolls-Royce offered huge discounts on the
engines in order to secure the Singapore Airlines order and gain market
share. This, said analysts, has long been a problem with Rolls-Royce:
from a corporate standpoint it needs the low-margin original sales, but
investors aren't patient waiting for revenue from spares and
replacements.



"Ultimately this is the story for Rolls. One day the market will wake
up and the spares revenue will be flooding in...but until then, it
doesn't matter what happens," said T&G's Murray, who expects spares from
other engine programs to finally come through for the company in three
to four years.



The market turned against Rolls at the time of its interim results
when it surprised the market with word that it faced flat underlying
earnings next year instead of the double-digit growth it had forecast
earlier. That was enough to see Rolls-Royce relegated to London's
second-line FTSE 250 index.



Since then, the A3XX orders have been unveiled, plus a number of
orders for engines to feed the growth in the regional jet market, as
well as deals for its Vickers battle tanks arm and marine division.



But one further factor weighs on any decision to use Rolls-Royce's
share-price lows to bargain hunt the stock, and this time it's out of
the company's hands.



"If the U.S. economy remains stable, then the (aerospace) industry
remains stable," said SSSB's Cunningham. "But if there is a downturn,
then the book-to-bill ratio will be impacted and shares will be hit
industry wide."



Credit Suisse First Boston analyst Harald Hendrikse said he could show
models that prove a downturn wouldn't really hurt Rolls-Royce, but
admitted that wouldn't prevent Rolls' shares falling in tandem with the
sector.



Hendrikse said he sees "so much value" in the stock which just won't
be tapped so long as market sentiment is against the company.



-By Robb M. Stewart, Dow Jones Newswires; 44-20-7842-9294;
robb.stewart@dowjones.com


Document dji0000020010805dwag04zi9




 Citybus parent battles for London market credibility. 

1,006 words
16 October 2000
South China Morning Post
SCMP
English
(c) 2000

 Citybus is the glittering jewel in the otherwise tarnished crown of Stagecoach Holdings as Audrey Snee reports from London 

 Stagecoach Holdings, the parent of Citybus, enjoys success in Hong Kong but in Britain and the United States it is struggling to revive its reputation. 

 Over the past month, Stagecoach has been buying back its shares in an attempt to boost the value and restore investor confidence. Instead it has pushed the share price down further and revived speculation the company may be taken private. 

 Stagecoach denies this. 

 "We have no intention in taking the company private. It needs the equity market to fund for growth," said Rob Ballantyne, spokesman for Stagecoach. 

 But the City is hostile to Stagecoach's attempts to rescue its flagging share value. "No one wants to buy except the management," one transport analyst said. "They have lost credibility." The Scottish-based group has seen its share price more than halve since the start of the year and languishes around 70 pence a far cry from its highs of GBP2.40 in mid-1999. 

 In July, last year Stagecoach acquired Coach USA, the second-largest bus operator in the US, a move which was seen as too ambitious and marked the decline in its share price. 

 Nine months later, the company was forced to admit its investment had soured, issuing a profit warning because of unexpected fuel-price rises and high staff turnover. In September, Stagecoach had further bad news for shareholders: growth at its US arm was slower than expected. 

 Despite cynicism among some analysts that Stagecoach was sold a dud and should have done its homework before buying, Stagecoach remains upbeat about the prospects for Coach USA, which has 90 subsidiaries and employs more than 12,000 people in 35 US states and Canada. "We are still talking about operating margins of 14 per cent," Mr Ballantyne said. 

 Another disaster struck when it disposed of its Swedish business Swebus in January. Although it made a gain in local currency from the sale, it lost on the exchange rate difference between time of acquisition and disposal. Stagecoach has lost GBP10.7 million (about HK$122.9 million) in overseas investment, mostly from the Swebus deal. 

 Stagecoach's reputation has also suffered a blow from several public relations fiascos involving senior management. Brian Souter, Stagecoach chairman, led a controversial campaign this summer, which he backed with his own money, to prevent repeal of British government legislation banning promotion of homosexuality in schools. 

 His high-profile involvement in the campaign was not well received by analysts. "It indicated to the market that Souter wasn't taking the business seriously enough," said one analyst, who asked not to be named. 

 Yet worse was to come when Barry Hinkley, one of the best regarded managers at Stagecoach, was caught soliciting a male prostitute in Houston, Texas. Mr Hinkley, part of the team involved in integrating Coach USA, who had previously worked in Hong Kong, immediately resigned, denting an already weak share price. 

 "We acknowledge but do not accept that Stagecoach's value is affected by how the market perceives its management," said Mr Ballantyne. 

 Stagecoach does have one saving grace, which even the most critical observers admire. 

 That is its Citybus operations in Hong Kong. In its first year under Stagecoach ownership, Citybus reported turnover of GBP128 million and operating profit of GBP21 million. 

 "Hong Kong is our jewel in the crown," Mr Ballantyne said. "It was a sound business when we purchased the company. We added value through economies of scale and being more efficient, such as cutting inventory on spare parts." 

 Around 80 per cent of Citybus' revenues come from its main franchise for the Chek Lap Kok airport. It is a route that Stagecoach expects to become more lucrative once housing expands on Lantau. 

 The remaining 20 per cent of revenue stems from its non-franchised routes, including cross-border and mainland routes, following an agreement with Kwoon Chung Buses in May last year. 

 Such was its success with the Octopus card in Hong Kong, Stagecoach is now introducing the concept in Britain, with a pilot scheme in Manchester between Stagecoach, First Group and National Express. 

 The same thing cannot be said for its mainland operation Road King Infrastructure. Stagecoach put its 29 per cent stake in the toll-road group up for sale in June, but failed to find a buyer. It was forced to write down its GBP85 million investment in Road King. 

 Stagecoach admits that it bought the stake as a link to regional and provincial governments in China. Now that Citybus has expanded into the mainland, Road King is a non-core asset, which Stagecoach will try to sell when its share value improves. 

 Stagecoach started out in 1980 as an operator of two buses in Perth. Twenty years on, the company is still based in Perth, but now employs 45,000 people and operates bus, tram, taxi and ferry services in Australia, New Zealand, Portugal, the US and Hong Kong, as well as its vast operations in Britain. 

 In Britain, Stagecoach represents 16 per cent of the bus sector, but also operates the Sheffield tram system and owns Prestwick International Airport in Scotland. 

 Stagecoach has also branched out in recent years into the deregulated British rail business, taking a 49 per cent stake in Sir Richard Branson's Virgin Train as well as buying into several regional rail-line franchises. 

 It is also one of the bidders for the Netherlands' southern high-speed rail link that will connect Amsterdam and Paris and is also looking at the Thameslink 2000 project, expanding the main-line rail link across central London. 

 Stagecoach has certainly been ambitious in the past couple of years and may, as some analysts suggest, have over-extended itself. "We have always been able to turn around businesses very quickly. Coach USA is much larger and may take longer, but we are still using the same matrix," Mr Ballantyne said. 

Document scmp000020010816dwag00rqb


Newport shares plunge, despite strong outlook

Nancy Gondo   
543 words
16 October 2000
Orange County Business Journal
OCBJ
1
Volume 23; Issue 42; ISSN: 10517480
English
© 2000 Orange County Business Journal. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.   

Newport Corp.'s extended run on Wall Street hit a snag last week.

For most of this year, the Irvinebased maker of production gear for fiber-optic equipment makers has seemed bulletproof. At the end of September, Newport shares were up more than 1,000% for the year, far and away the biggest surge in any Orange County stock.

But Newport shares have turned sharply downward this month. Late last week, they were trading at around 129, off by about a third from their late September high of 189. A profit warning last week from fiber-optic bell wether Lucent Technologies Inc. only compounded Newport's slide.

Still, investment fund managers-for whom Newport has been a darling-aren't jumping ship. Lucent's problems are specific to the company, they contend. Newport's long-term growth potential remains intact, they said. "The company is doing well," said San Francisco-based Zero Gravity Internet Group Inc.'s Patrick Wong, a manager of Zero Gravity Internet Fund. "The stock's had a long run, but fundamentally it's sound. I don't think people should be as concerned about them as Lucent.

Lucent gave fiber-optic investors something to worry about when it said its profit for the quarter ended Sept. 30 would fall about 27% from the same year-ago period. Lucent blamed, among other problems, a 5% decline in sales of optical networking systems.

Newport's equipment for the production of fiber-optic networking components made up nearly 40% of the company's $97 million in first-half sales. Customers include Lucent, Nortel Networks Corp., IDS Uniphase Core. and others.

Fiber optics allow computers to transmit vast amounts of data using light pulses sent over strands of glass, instead of electrical signals over copper wires. Newport's gear helps automate the production of fiber-optic equipment.

Shares in Newport dropped by 9, or 7%, the day after Lucent issued its warning. The news also dragged down other fiber-optic players, including Coming Inc. and JDS Uniphase.

Silver Lining

While Lucent spooked investors, Steven Brase, one ofthe managers of Houston-based AIM Management Group Inc.'s AIM Constellation Fund, sees a bright side for Newport in Lucent's announcement.

Lucent's troubles stem from its optical systems business, which counts big communications companies as customers, he said. Newport sells to Lucent's optical components business, part of its microelectronics division, which is expected to be up 50% for the recently concluded quarter.

Newport is set to announce its third-quarter results this Thursday. Analysts polled by First Call Corp. expect Newport to earn 22 cents a share for the quarter, up from 8 cents in the same year-ago period.

For the year, profit estimates for Newport

stand at 73 cents a share, which would be a 143% jump from 1999. Analysts expect strong growth to continue: They see earnings growing at 50% a year for the next five years, according to First Call.

"Newport will do well at the tailwind of optical components companies," Wong said. "Right now in optical components, there's a huge lack of supply in the market." 

Copyright CBJ, L. P. Oct 16-Oct 22, 2000

Document ocbj000020010809dwag000xn




DBusiness
Tech stocks again have bad week; Investors now have to pick which of the hardest-hit will rebound

Bloomberg News   
884 words
16 October 2000
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
MLWK
Final
01
English
Copyright 2000, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

As U.S. stocks fell for the sixth straight week -- something they last did a decade ago -- the list of battered technology stocks has grown.

Among the 442 U.S. companies with a market value greater than $5 billion, 56 have fallen by at least half from their 52-week highs, and 165 have dropped 30% or more.

The hardest hit: Internet venture-capital fund CMGI Inc., down 89%, online bookseller Amazon.com Inc., down 78% and search-directory Yahoo! Inc., 77% lower. Dell Computer Corp., Biogen Inc., and Texas Instruments Inc. all fell by more than half.

For investors, the question is which of these stocks is due for a rally after the declines.

"There are unbelievable opportunities right now," said Aaron Harris, who manages the $100 million Gartmore Millennium Growth Fund in Conshohocken, Pa. "You're getting to the point where almost all the bad news and fear is in the market."

Harris, whose fund is up 44% in 2000, said he is considering buying Sycamore Networks Inc., which is down 55% from its March high.

Many portfolio managers weren't waiting. The Nasdaq Composite Index on Friday surged 7.9%, the technology benchmark's second biggest gain of all time, as investors bet the worst of the declines were over.

Still, the Nasdaq, the Standard & Poor's 500 Index and the Dow Jones industrial average all declined for the week.

Stocks have fallen since Sept. 1 as companies warned that the slowing economy, higher oil prices and the strength of the dollar against the euro would result in slower-than-expected profit and revenue growth.

Room to fall

Though semiconductor stocks have "really been hit," said John Forelli, who helps manage $30 billion at Independence Investment Associates in Boston, "there's still a lot of room for them to fall."

Shares that have fallen by half include chip-equipment maker KLA-Tencor Corp., Teradyne Inc. and Applied Materials Inc., and chipmakers Micron Technology Inc., Atmel Corp. and Altera Corp.

Dropping by half again is not out of the question, according to Forelli. "Everyone's realized again that semiconductors are cyclical."

A stock such as Advanced Micro Devices Inc., down 52% from its June high to $21.88 as of Friday, "is not afraid of single digits" when semiconductor stocks are completely out of favor, Forelli said.

The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index dropped 5.2%, even after a 10% rally Friday. It is now down 34% since Sept. 1.

Forelli also pointed out that some stocks have hardly fallen at all. "There are still pockets of technology that are awfully, awfully expensive," Forelli said.

The most overpriced companies, he said, are in optical networking and Internet infrastructure, citing Juniper Networks Inc. as a prime example. The maker of Internet routers trades for more than 700 times this year's expected earnings and more than 100 times revenue.

Juniper beat estimates

Juniper was one of the companies that did not disappoint investors last week. After exchanges closed Thursday, the company reported a 17-cent third-quarter profit and a sixfold increase in revenue, handily beating analysts' estimates.

PMC-Sierra Inc., which makes semiconductors used to speed Internet traffic, also beat profit forecasts, while Veritas Software Corp., which makes software for data-storage management, said revenue will be higher than expected.

Juniper rose 20% last week, and Veritas gained 5.3%. PMC-Sierra fell 4.3% and is off 22% from its March high. Gartmore's Harris said he bought shares of all three recently.

Profit report from Gateway Inc., the No. 2 direct-seller of personal computers, along with Juniper and PMC-Sierra, helped spark a rally Friday. Stocks fell every other day last week.

The Nasdaq lost 1.3% for the week after dropping to its lowest level of the year on Thursday. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 2.5% and the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 3.8%.

The profit warning that most concerned investors last week came from Home Depot Inc. on Thursday. The No. 1 home improvement retailer led the Dow average to its biggest decline since April 14 after the company said it will miss profit forecasts. The company has had to cut prices for building materials and is paying higher energy costs, Home Depot said.

"If Home Depot can't perform through an economic downturn, who can?" Forelli said. Home Depot fell 29% Thursday --its biggest drop ever. Rival Lowe's Cos. fell 4.9% last week and is down 38% from its April high.

The Fed isn't likely to change interest rates for at least several months, investors say. Still, investors will watch the consumer price index and a report on new home construction, both due next Tuesday, for signs of whether the economy is slowing too much.

Last week marked the end of the traditional period when companies warn investors of disappointing third-quarter results. With the bulk of the actual profit reports due in coming weeks, stocks may get a further boost, some investors say.

The pace of earnings reports steps up this week, when 193 of the companies in the S&P 500 are scheduled to announce results.

Document MLWK000020100320dwag018db


 Lucent cuts its growth forecast. 

178 words
16 October 2000
Electronics Times
ELTIM
4
English
(c) 2000 Miller Freeman

 Lucent Technologies has yet again cut its profit growth forecast. Fourth quarter profit is now expected to fall by 25 to 30% as a result of lower-than-expected sales in optical and traditional telephone switch equipment. 

 The company, which is already struggling to recover from product development and manufacturing problems, has also been hit by increased reserves for bad debt because of problem loans to emerging service providers. 

 Lucent denied suggestions that its sales shortfall was due to a drop in equipment spending by telecoms and Internet service providers, despite ongoing concern that carriers are about to trim their spending plans. 

 Richard McGinn, Lucent's chairman, said: "You should not equate a decline in circuit switching in this quarter as a decline in carrier spending. The market overall for the building blocks for the broadband and mobile Internet remains strong." 

 Lucent's year started with a profit warning and, despite attempts to reinvigorate its performance, the company has not yet been able to reverse its fading fortunes. 

 Copyright: United Business Media Ltd. 

Document eltim00020010807dwag002zh




The Trader
 MARKET WEEK -- Stocks 
 Friday Rally Brakes a Scary Slide on Wall Street 

 By Andrew Bary 
2,555 words
16 October 2000
Barron's
B
MW3
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Wall Street ended a tough week on a very upbeat note as the depressed technology sector surged Friday, buoyed by bargain hunting and strong profit reports from Juniper Networks and Veritas Software, two of the group's hottest members. 

 The Nasdaq rose 242 points Friday to 3316, a 7.87% advance, its third-largest point-gain ever and second-biggest percentage move. The top percentage gain came on May 30, when the tech-heavy index rose 7.94%. 

 Friday's explosive rally recouped nearly all of what the Nasdaq lost in the prior four sessions. For the week, the index was off 44 points, or 1.3%, leaving it with a year-to-date loss of 18.5%. Cisco Systems, Sun Microsystems, Oracle, EMC, Juniper and Veritas all rose at least 10% in Friday's session. 

 The Dow Jones Industrials advanced Friday, but far less robustly than the Nasdaq, as formerly strong stocks like Procter & Gamble, Exxon Mobil and Merck gave ground. The blue-chip index gained 157 points to 10,192, a 1.6% rise, in the session, partly offsetting the 379-point setback Thursday, when Dow component Home Depot plunged after announcing a rare profit disappointment. Escalating Mideast violence also rattled global markets. The Dow fell 404 points, or 3.8%, in the five sessions, while the S&P 500 dropped 34 points, to 1374, a 2.4% loss. 

 "By most any measure, the market was grossly oversold," Laszlo Birinyi, head of Birinyi Associates, a Greenwich, Connecticut, research firm, said on Friday afternoon. He pointed out that the Nasdaq began that day 19% below its 50-day moving average, suggesting that the techheavy index was due for a bounce. Stocks also were buoyed by upbeat comments from a longtime bull, Abby Cohen, the market strategist at Goldman Sachs, who said the S&P 500 was 15% undervalued, and that the index could hit 1575 by year-end, a 15% rise from current levels. 

 Birinyi also pointed out that the S&P Semiconductor Index started Friday 44% below its March peak, marking its secondbiggest plunge since 1982. The only worse drop occurred in 1987. 

 Battered tech investors were cheered Friday, following better-than-expected profit reports from Juniper and Veritas. The pair may not be household names, but they've become tech bellwethers because of their strong profit growth, enormous valuations and ability to carve out big product niches. The twin reports suggested that the top technology companies, such as Oracle, Sun Microsystems, EMC and Cisco, may be able to avoid the fate of Intel, Lucent Technologies and Motorola by continuing to deliver outsized profit gains. 

 Juniper, a maker of routers and one of the few true competitors to Cisco, gained 28.88 Friday to 228.50. The stock has quadrupled this year. Juniper clobbered Street expectations for the second straight quarter by posting net income of 17 cents before amortization and other expenses, nearly double the consensus estimate of nine cents, and up from a year-ago loss of a penny. 

 Reflecting Juniper's low profile outside the tech world, its profit news got routed to the back of business sections Friday, while Home Depot's profit warning was front-page news. Yet Juniper's market value of $80 billion is nearly equal to that of Home Depot. Juniper boasts a fearsome valuation, trading for nearly 300 times projected 2001 profits of 80 cents. 

 Veritas, the leader in network data systems, said late Thursday that its fourth-quarter operating profit rose 78% to 16 cents, two cents above expectations. That news didn't even merit a story in Friday's Wall Street Journal, even though Veritas' market value is $61 billion, nearly double that of General Motors. Veritas rose 19.25 to 140.75 Friday, leaving it with a 48% gain for the year. Veritas, like Juniper, has a monstrous valuation, trading at 241 times projected 2000 profits of 58 cents and 177 times expected 2001 earnings of 79 cents. The huge price/earnings ratios of Juniper and Veritas make them vulnerable to any earnings or revenue disappointment, but so far they have delivered -- in spades. 

 -- If someone had told you a year ago that oil prices would be up over 50% in the next 12 months, you probably would have loaded up on the major energy stocks. 

 But one of the ironies about the surge in crude this year is that three of the five major oil companies now have lower stock prices than they did a year ago: Chevron, BP and Texaco. Royal Dutch Petroleum is up 6% in the past 12 months, while Exxon Mobil has advanced 22%. Texaco could rally Monday because of unconfirmed reports late Friday that Chevron has resumed merger talks with the company. 

 Last week, the Big Oils advanced, but not as much as might have been expected, given the $4 rise in crude price to $35 a barrel. Exxon rose 1.00 to 90.50, Royal Dutch gained 1.75 to 62.75; Texaco added 3.38 to 55.13; BP was up 1.44 to 54.56, but Chevron fell 13 cents to 84.25, leaving it below its 1999 high of 104. 

 -- The industrial sector may be ailing but General Electric seems to get stronger by the quarter. It reported a 19% rise in third-quarter profit to 32 cents, continuing the earnings acceleration that began last year. GE did fall 2.44 to 57 last week, but it's still up 10% this year, and its market value of $570 billion is No. 1 by a wide margin -- Cisco is No. 2 at around $400 billion. 

 GE commands a lofty P/E of 45 times projected 2000 profits, but its many Street fans say it remains attractive because of what they consider the near-certainty that GE will deliver 15%-18% annual profit growth through 2002. GE's impeccable standing with investors enables it to provide barebones information in its profit release and get away without a conference call to discuss results. 

 As is typical, GE released scant data on the two dozen businesses within GE Capital, the huge financial-services arm that accounts for nearly half its profits. GE Capital had a customary 17% profit gain in the quarter, driven by strength in consumer services and equipment management. GE Capital's largest single business, Employers Reinsurance, had another disappointing quarter, however, with profits falling by about 50%. GE Capital also continued to use gains to offset restructuring charges. It took a $226 million gain on the pending sale of its stake in PaineWebber to UBS. 

 GE Capital took large gains on its technology-stock portfolio for other restructuring actions in the first two quarters of this year. GE's backers say the exceptional performance of GE Capital reflects the strength and diversity of its businesses, yet some wonder if it can continue its high-teens annual profit gains from a base of over $5 billion while carrying underperforming businesses. The eventual successor to GE Chairman Jack Welch could face some pressure to provide more information about GE Capital and the rest of the company's businesses. 

 -- Yahoo's cautious outlook prompted a sharp drop in its stock, which fell 21.25 to 60 last week, and enabled a Wall Street bull to quietly reduce his rating on the stock. Jamie Kiggen, the Internet analyst at Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette, assumed the same position at Credit Suisse First Boston last week as part of the coming merger of the two firms. At DLJ, Kiggen had rated Yahoo a "buy" and had a price target of $250, based on a September 20 research note. At CSFB, Kiggen resumed coverage of Yahoo with a "hold" and a price target of just 100. Kiggen cited a "challenging near-term business environment" for the company. 

 There have been rumors lately that Amazon.com has been considering a large equity offering. The battered e-tailer, whose stock fell 3 to 28.44 last week, is said to be mulling the sale of as much as $1 billion in stock. Amazon doesn't need money now because it ended the second quarter with $900 million in cash -- enough to last well into 2001. The idea behind a potential equity deal would be to solidify its balance sheet, which has $2 billion in debt. But Amazon may want to see its stock price get up toward 40 before it seriously considers any deal. An equity sale at current prices probably would enrage many shareholders who bought stock at much higher levels. 

 -- Business Week's "Inside Wall Street Column" continues to float wacky takeover talk. The latest instance came Friday, when it reported that Hughes Electronics, whose tracking stock is General Motors, class H, could fetch $60-$70 in a leveraged buyout, prompting a gain of 2.48 in the GM H stock to 30.23. But at 60, Hughes, whose main asset is DirecTV, would be valued at $84 billion, an amount so huge that it would be prohibitive to finance, even if the LBO fund simply bought GM's stake and left the H stock outstanding. The betting here has been that GM H holders will be lucky to get more than the stock's recent high of 37. News Corp., which is rumored to be the top contender, has a market value now of just over $40 billion, below that of Hughes. 

 -- MGM Mirage has been the top-performing gaming stock this year, rising 30%, to 32.69, even after a recent pullback. The shares have been buoyed by optimism about the company's $6.4 billion purchase of Mirage Resorts in May, which made MGM Las Vegas's dominant casino operator, with such properties as the Bellagio, Mirage, MGM Grand and New York, New York. 

 MGM, controlled by billionaire financier Kirk Kerkorian, has been an investor favorite because of its management's reputation as a sharp and disciplined operator, unlike Mirage's old boss, the extravagant Steve Wynn. 

 But some MGM critics say the company has used aggressive accounting in connection with the Mirage merger that has prettied up its reported earnings. Wall Street has said little about the matter. 

 MGM paid $4.4 billion in cash for Mirage in May and assumed nearly $2 billion in debt. Because the purchase price significantly exceeded Mirage's assets, the deal might have produced a lot of goodwill, forcing MGM to deduct non-cash goodwill from its profits and reducing reported earnings. 

 But when MGM made its purchase, it boosted the value of Mirage's assets -- primarily land in Vegas and Atlantic City -- by $2.6 billion, resulting in negligible goodwill in the merger. Land, unlike buildings, doesn't have to be depreciated over time. The net result of the revaluation of the Mirage land is that MGM's reported profits show minimal goodwill and little added depreciation from the transaction. Mirage-related goodwill is estimated at about $16 million annually, below the roughly $80 million in goodwill that MGM might have absorbed if the Mirage assets hadn't been revalued. 

 MGM's profits this year are expected to total $1.50 a share, up from $1.18 in 1999. Next year's consensus is around $1.75 a share. 

 MGM President Jim Murren dismissed any criticism of the revaluation of the Mirage assets. He told Barron's Friday that accounting rules required MGM to put a value on the Mirage assets at the time of the merger and that recent land transactions in Las Vegas and Atlantic City fully support the assessment of the property. Prime land on the Las Vegas Strip has been going for $10 million an acre, he adds. 

 The MGM critics wonder why Wynn didn't sell the tract or demand a higher price if Mirage's undeveloped land was so valuable. And if the property is worth $4 billion -- its current carrying value -- maybe Kerkorian ought to consider selling it to reduce MGM's $6 billion in debt. 

 Murren says the goodwill issue has no effect on MGM's cash flow, or EBITDA, the prime financial measure for evaluating hotel/casino operators. 

 Here's another issue: MGM's reported earnings also are benefiting because the company is capitalizing an appreciable amount of interest, rather than expensing it. In the first five months of the year, MGM capitalized around $44 million in interest related to Mirage (on a pro-forma basis) and it reportedly told investors this summer that it sees $160 million in capitalized interest in 2001. 

 The high level of capitalized interest is a direct result of the revaluation of the Mirage land. Hotel and casino operators are required to capitalize interest on construction projects because the cost of money is part of a project's expense. MGM, however, doesn't have any major ongoing construction projects in Las Vegas or Atlantic City. Murren says MGM is entitled to capitalize the interest on the Mirage land because it intends to develop the property. 

 Critics argue that MGM is taking a very liberal interpretation of the accounting rule for capitalizing interest, thus making its reported earnings look better than they really are. 

 The casino group has come under some pressure because of concerns of a weakening in the robust Las Vegas market. MGM, which gets about 80% of its cash flow from Las Vegas, fell 56 cents to 32.69 last week, leaving it below its recent high of 38. (MGM was the subject of a skeptical article on Barron's Online, which was reprinted in Barron's on September 23). There have been rumors that some Las Vegas hotels have been turning to West Coast wholesalers to fill rooms at discounted rates. 

 MGM still trades at a premium to its nearest competitor, Park Place Entertainment. MGM fetches over eight times projected 2001 cash flow, while Park Place, at 13.56, trades for about six times next year's estimated cash flow. 


---
                      VITAL SIGNS
                      FRIDAY'S   WEEK'S    WEEK'S
                       CLOSE     CHANGE    % CHG.
DJ Industrials       10192.18    -404.36    -3.82
DJ Transportation     2430.18    -113.47    -4.46
DJ Utilities           388.75      +9.77    +2.58
DJ 65 Stocks          3055.77     -76.39    -2.44
DJ US Tot. Mkt         321.50      -8.14    -2.47
NYSE Comp.             637.61     -18.51    -2.82
Amex Comp.             914.45      -6.26    - .68
S&P 500               1374.17     -34.82    -2.47
S&P MidCap             501.26     -11.66    -2.27
S&P SmallCap           205.71       -.86    - .42
Nasdaq                3316.77     -44.24    -1.32
Value Line (arith.)   1072.74     -23.67    -2.16
Russell 2000           480.39     -10.63    -2.16
Wilshire 5000        12803.25    -338.91    -2.58
                                 Last Week     Week Ago
NYSE Advances                      966          1,187
Declines                         2,356          2,076
Unchanged                          170            251
New Highs                          106            229
New Lows387243
Av Daily Vol (mil)               1,364.9        1,322.8
Dollar
(Finex spot index)                 115.86         114.85
T-Bond
(CBT nearby futures)               99-16          98-27
Crude Oil
(NYM light sweet crude)             34.99          30.86
Inflation KR-CRB
(Futures Price Index)              233.45         226.01
Gold
(CMX nearby futures)               272.40         269.30


Document b000000020010803dwag001vi




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Tech Stock Surge Stems Week's Losses Wall Street: Nasdaq posts its second-biggest one-day gain, 7.87%, as strong profit reports and relative calm in Mideast buoy investors. 

 WALTER HAMILTON 
TIMES STAFF WRITER
1,192 words
14 October 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-1
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 Friday the 13th proved to be Wall Street's lucky day as aggressive buying of beaten-down technology shares produced a stunning rebound from the stock market's recent sharp sell-off. 

 The Nasdaq composite index surged to its second-biggest one-day gain ever in percentage terms. Impressive earnings at several tech companies and a day of relative calm in the Middle East stirred hope that the market's relentless six-week sell-off had finally run its course. 

 "It was welcome relief," said Joseph Battipaglia, chief investment strategist at Gruntal & Co. "Now the rubber is going to hit the road. You just got a down payment on what is going to be a positive market for the rest of the year." 

 The Nasdaq leapt 242.09 points to 3,316.77, a 7.87% jump that was second only to its 7.94% bound May 30, 1987. The day was paced by aggressive buying of big-name tech stocks that had fallen hard since Sept. 1. Dell Computer, for example, surged almost 18%, Sun Microsystems climbed 13% and Cisco Systems jumped more than 12%. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average, after coming within 15 points of falling below 10,000 in early trading, rallied to pick up 157.60 points, or 1.6%, to close at 10,192.18. 

 Bulls were encouraged that the gains came despite a report showing inflation among wholesale goods to be stronger than expected last month, rising 0.9% rather than the 0.5% economists anticipated. A separate study showed that September retail sales also topped forecasts. 

 Trading volume was heavy at almost 2.1 billion shares on Nasdaq, where two stocks rose for every one that fell, and 1.2 billion on the New York Stock Exchange, where advancers led decliners by a 4-3 margin. 

 What's more, volume on stock-price upticks--a measure of whether investors are willing to pay successively higher prices to secure desired stocks--swamped down-tick activity by a whopping 4-1 margin on Nasdaq. Also, unlike recent days, stocks closed at their highs of the session, a good omen for Monday, experts said. 

 Stocks also got a boost from several Wall Street gurus, including Goldman Sachs' influential Abby Joseph Cohen, who commented that the U.S. economy is still in a "strong condition" and will grow a solid 3% to 4% annually. 

 "We think that adds up to a stock market that can go higher as soon as investors see there is no recession around the corner, and we don't see one," Cohen said on CNBC . 

 Friday's rally followed four days of heavy losses owing to fears that a slowing economy would crimp corporate earnings, particularly at richly valued tech companies. Those worries climaxed Thursday with a surprise profit warning from retail giant Home Depot, coupled with a suspected terrorist attack on a U.S. warship in Yemen and escalating fighting between Israelis and Palestinians. 

 But investors were buoyed Friday by strong profit reports from tech firms such as Juniper Networks, PMC-Sierra, Lam Research and Veritas Software. 

 "If earnings come in as good as we think they're going to come in [over the next few weeks], then investors should take some comfort [from the conclusion] that, 'yes, we're seeing the economy decelerate, but it's not a hard landing, it's a soft landing,' " said Jeffrey Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Bros. 

 Many Wall Street analysts said the Middle East crisis forestalled a recovery that they had expected to take hold in the middle of the week. 

 "You had an oversold market that had been hit so bloody hard that it deserved to rally," said Marshall Acuff, strategist at Salomon Smith Barney. 

 But even though some experts pronounced the autumn downturn over, others on Wall Street weren't so sure. After all, despite Friday's big rally, major stock indexes were still down for the sixth straight week--their longest losing streak in 10 years. 

 The biggest potential stumbling block, they agreed, remains the Middle East. Crude oil prices dipped 3% Friday when tensions eased a bit. But further hostilities in the region could renew concerns about a disruption of oil exports. 

 Furthermore, some of Friday's gains were due to investors who had bet on a continued market downturn being forced to close out their losing positions. Though this "short-covering" drove prices higher, that is only a brief tonic for the market, experts said. 

 "In the last 15 minutes, [these investors] ran like hell to cover" their losing positions, said Larry Rice, chief investment officer at Josephthal & Co. 

 Among Friday's market highlights: 

 * Shares of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter surged more than 10% after an analyst withdrew an earlier report that raised fears the firm could be facing big losses in its portfolio of telecom junk bonds. 

 In a note to research clients Friday, Salomon Smith Barney analyst Guy Moszkowski said his earlier report may have concluded "something that in fact is really not knowable." A Morgan Stanley executive described Moszkowski's original report as "incomplete" and "misleading." 

 Morgan Stanley shares lost as much as a quarter of their value amid rising concern about the firm's junk bond holdings. The firm stemmed the decline by disclosing that the losses totaled about $89 million. Morgan Stanley's stock closed at $78.19, up $7.44. 

 * Friday's big Nasdaq rally didn't lift every tech boat. Shares of DoubleClick Inc. tumbled 31% after the biggest online advertising company said its third-quarter loss widened on rising expenses. The firm also disclosed that ad sales will be weaker in the first quarter of 2001. DoubleClick closed at $12.44, down $5.69. 

 MyPoints.com Inc. fell $2.69 to $2.19--a loss of 55%--after cutting almost a third of its work force. At least six analysts cut their ratings on MyPoints shares. Online advertising firm 24/7 Media Inc. fell almost 14%, falling 69 cents to $4.31. 

 * 

 Bloomberg News contributed to this report. 

 Market Roundup, C4-5 

 (BEGIN TEXT OF INFOBOX / INFOGRAPHIC) 

 Friday Stars Friday's market rally gave a big lift to a broad range of technology stocks, including PC makers, software designers and networking companies. Below is a sampling of the biggest gainers. 


Stock                    Friday close                Change
PMC-Sierra Inc.             $190.44                    +$32
Juniper Networks Inc.       $228.50                 +$28.89
SDL Inc.                    $305.48                 +$27.98
i2 Technologies Inc.        $182                    +$21.06
Redbank Networks Inc.       $121.52                 +$18.83
CacheFlow Inc.              $122.75                 +$17.75
Emulex Corp.                $129.69                 +$14.69
Sun Microsystems Inc.       $111                    +$13.06
Veritas Software Corp.      $140.81                 +$19.17
Gateway Inc.                $53.11                   +$9.48
EMC Corp.                   $94.94                   +$9.19



Source: Bloomberg News


 GRAPHIC-TABLE: Friday Stars, Los Angeles Times;  ; GRAPHIC-CHART: Daily Diary, Friday, Oct. 13, 2000; 

Document latm000020010808dwae021rw




Abreast of the Market
 Selling Frenzy Sends U.S. Markets Plunging --- Mideast Turmoil, Profit Worries Shake Investors 

 By Gregory Zuckerman 
Staff Reporter
1,164 words
13 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
1
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 A stock market already on tenterhooks over the outlook for the U.S. economy weakened into an outright plunge, as violence in the Middle East and rising oil prices sent investors into a selling frenzy. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average, in one of the New York Stock Exchange's most-active sessions, dropped 3.6%, or 379.21 points, to 10034.58 -- perilously close to the vaunted 10000 milestone. The Nasdaq Composite Index, which had already been tumbling amid a sell-off in technology stocks in recent days, fell 3%. 

 The tumble, which was caused also by a surprise earnings warning from Dow industrials component Home Depot, the home-improvement chain, capped the most painful six-week period for U.S. stocks in seven months. While stock-market bulls pointed to the swoon as a healthy precursor to a turnaround down the line, the losses raised questions about whether the bull market in the DJIA, celebrating its 10 year anniversary just this week, is finally down for the count. 

 "Anybody who's not scared right now is lying," said Ken Sheinberg, head of listed trading at SG Cowen in New York. 

 The Nasdaq composite's drop to 3074.68 puts below the key 3164.55 level reached during its May swoon and a whopping 39% off the 5048.62 high in March. Any drop of 20% or more in an index is considered a bear market, and Nasdaq is firmly in one now. The Dow industrials, in contrast, are still only 14% off their high set in January. 

 In many ways, the stock market's stumble is long in coming. Stocks have surged for several years, thanks to climbing corporate earnings and falling interest rates, with the Nasdaq soaring a record 86% last year alone. Major indexes are still higher than they were during most of last year. While the Nasdaq has been falling sharply this year, the heaviest losses had been were suffered by more-speculative stocks, like Internet stocks with little or nothing in the way of earnings. Only in the last month or so have tech titans like Intel and Oracle joined the free-fall. 

 But the Middle East tensions pushed already nervous investors over the edge. It was worries about oil that served as the catalyst for the stock market's last bottom, in 1990, before the market started rising for 10 years until this week. 

 Carol Buchman, a financial planner in New York City who caters to individual investors, received a stream of calls from concerned clients yesterday. "No one called to bail out but they're discouraged and scared, they're calling me to see how much they've lost, and I didn't hear from them when the market was going up," she says. 

 The day began poorly with a hope. Stock-market futures suggested that stocks would begin the day on the upside. But news of suicide bombing of a U.S. ship in Yemen, and new violence in Israel, the Dow Jones Industrial Average began to tumble. And Home Depot's first profitwarning in more than five years is a sign that even the fastest-growing retailers are starting to encounter an economic headwind. 

 "The economy and consumer spending, any way you want to cut it, are emerging from a multi-year boom," said Mark D. Mandel, an analyst at Robinson-Humphrey. "We're moving into an environment that is less robust and potentially could be a lot less robust." 

 Where do we go from here? Wall Street traders point to the psychologically important 10000 level for the Dow as crucial for the market's confidence. If the Dow falls below 10000 more short-term pain is likely. 

 "A fall through 10000 would lead to a stampede of selling and people throwing in the towel," says Mr. Spar. 

 Amid all the gloom, some see the makings for a recovery. The U.S. economy is still growing, albeit at a slower pace of perhaps 3%, rather than the 5% experienced during several quarters in the past year. Inflation remains under wraps and wage costs under control, as productivity gains continue throughout the economy. And if the economy continues to slow, the Federal Reserve might be tempted to lower interest rates in the months ahead. 

 Further, stock market prognosticators preach one maxim: Stock market tumbles end with a bang, not a whimper. The selling lately has been accompanied by heavy volume, suggesting the market is reaching its so-called capitulation phase. Amid yesterday's plunge, some were saying the turnaround is in sight. 

 "We're in the final . . . stage, clients are calling me to say they can't sleep at night, they're sick to their stomachs, questioning their resolve," says Rick Eakle, president of Eakle Assoicates in Fair Haven, N.J., who advises hedge funds, among other investors. "This will be one of the rare buying opportunities you only get once or twice a year." 

 In Europe, some fund managers say they are buying -- though they are still waiting to put any big money back into these volatile stocks. They say technology stocks still haven't found stability. 

 "We have been underweight in technology for the past few months and so we are not buying or selling very many of these shares at the moment," says Jacob van Duijn, manager of the &11 billion Robeco fund in Rotterdam.  "We might see an opportunity to pick up a few shares that have fallen more than 20% in recent days. But we are not reallocating a large amount to information technology and telecom." 

 Mr. Duijn says the portfolio's allocation to tech and telecom stocks dropped to its current level of 25% from 50% in March. Mr. van Duijn says he isn't ready to do some serious bottom fishing. "You don't want to buy into a decline, when you don't know when the decline is going to stop," he says. "When the decline does stop you will see a pretty strong recovery in technology. And then we will want to be on the next train going up." 

 But there are some fund managers who are taking advantage of the lower prices. Marc Schaedler, manager of the EuropGrowth fund for Hamburg-based Nordinvest, says he has lowered his cash position to 5% from 20% in the last few weeks. He has moved back into information technology, biotechnology and Neuer Markt blue chips shares such as Intershop. 

 "We're already seeing some brave investors putting their feet back in, and they've been rewarded," says Mr. Schaedler. "Liquidity is low in a lot of Neuer Markt companies, so if I have a chance to snap up a good number of shares in a company I like at a cheap price, I will." 

 --- 

 Rick Brooks, Sara Calian and Vanessa Fuhrmans contributed to this article 

Document wsje000020010814dwad00g80




 Lucent chairman McGinn faces pressure after warning. 

748 words
13 October 2000
The Times of India
TOI
English
 (c) 2000 The Times of India Group

 NEW YORK: Lucent Technologies latest profit warning, its third this year, puts great pressure on its Chairman Rich McGinn to show fast progress in reviving the ailing telecommunications equipment maker or resign, analysts and investors said on Wednesday. 

 After the stock market closed on Tuesday, Lucent confirmed Wall Street's fears that it would miss its fourth-quarter profit targets. It said fourth-quarter profits would fall 25 to 29 percent and 2001 forecasts would be cut as well. 

 Lucent's stock plunged, hitting a level unseen since January 1998. The stock fell $9-7/8, or more than 31 percent, to $21-1/2 on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock, once a Wall Street darling, has skidded more than 70 percent this year. 

 Rumors swirled late last month that McGinn would be forced to resign if Lucent missed its fourth-quarter growth targets. After the reduced quarterly outlook, those rumors intensified. 

 "There's a lot of rumors going around. He's clearly at risk. I think a change (in management) would help the stock," said Robert W Baird analyst Ted Moreau. 

 One analyst said the company recently hired executive recruiting firm Korn/Ferry International to find McGinn's replacement. Lucent declined to comment. Korn/Ferry could not be reached for comment. 

 "He's got to be out of there. I'm surprised it hasn't happened already. They're a mess. I think it's recoverable, but I think it will take a major management shake-up," said Christine Heckart, an analyst with communications consulting firm TeleChoice. 

 Lucent has been working to rebuild investor confidence, catch up to rivals in the booming optical networking industry and restructure its operations. 

 Bold changes are needed to realign Lucent, analysts said. 

 Lucent should cut 30-40 per cent of its employees, get rid of several layers of middle management, and streamline its bureaucratic ways, Heckart said. 

 "People seem to forget that Lucent is AT&T. They did very little when they spun off (from AT&T) to change the culture. They got a new logo and a great marketing campaign, but they're as fat and bureaucratic as AT&T ever was," Heckart said. 

 Lucent's problems have been widespread. Lucent missed industry cues that its telecommunications customers would shift toward high-speed fiber optic products and away from traditional telephone switch networks. When it finally jumped on the optical boom, it already trailed rivals such as Canada's Nortel Networks. 

 Lucent had struggled to launch optical products, but in January it said it had been unable to manufacture the products fast enough to keep up with robust customer demand. It lost orders to rivals and disappointed key customers, analysts said. 

 While the company had hoped to resolve its manufacturing and product development problems earlier this year, the woes lingered into the fourth quarter and will hurt next year's profits and sales as well. 

 McGinn said the problems were "fixable," but some investors were not convinced. 

 "He's been saying all year that they were going to fix the problems. But I just see things getting worse instead of better," said one portfolio manager who holds shares of Lucent. 

 McGinn, who started his communications career in 1969 at Illinois Bell and spent about 18 years at Lucent's former parent AT&T, was too entrenched in the telephone industry culture to leap on the shift toward data and optical networking, analysts said. 

 Telephone companies, Internet service providers and large corporations have been clamoring for sophisticated equipment that can handle increasingly large volumes of data, voice and video traffic sparked by the boom in the Internet. 

 Lucent "needs to move from being a product and engineering company to a systems and solutions company, and be more market-driven - driven by what the customer wants," Moreau said. "From my perspective I think that some of these problems should have been addressed awhile ago," he said. 

 If Lucent successfully delivers on its promises to reorganize its operations, cut costs and improves product delivery times, McGinn could win a pardon, some analysts said. 

 But the clock is running. 

 "I'm sure McGinn is capable of fixing it, but the question is will Wall Street give him the time? Five years ago, he'd be given the time. But in today's short-attention-span world, CEOs don't have the luxury of time," said independent telecommunications analyst Jeffrey Kagan. (Reuters). 

Document toi0000020010818dwad013h9




 UPDATE 2-Xerox dismisses Chap. 11 talk, stock at 9-yr low. 

486 words
13 October 2000
17:10
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 13 (Reuters) - Shares of Xerox Corp. hit a nine-year low Friday morning after the struggling photocopier maker dismissed rumours circulating in European securities markets that it would file for U.S. bankruptcy protection. 

 "These are misleading market rumours about our company filing for Chapter 11," a European spokeswoman for the Stamford, Conn.-based company told Reuters in London. 

 In a statement issued separately from the spokeswoman's comment to Reuters, the company said its policy is not to comment on rumours and speculation. 

 "But in order to reassure the markets," the statement said, "the company reaffirmed that it has adequate liquidity including its $7 billion revolving credit agreement, which is available through October 2002, as disclosed in the company's 8-K filing with the SEC (U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission) on October 10." 

 In early New York Stock Exchange trading, Xerox shares fell 10 percent to as low as $10 - a price not seen on the stock since late 1991. In active trade, the stock had by midmorning ticked back up to $10-1/4, down 7/8, or more than 7 percent, on the day. 

 Xerox has shed some 85 percent of its stock market valuation since 1999. 

 Traders across Europe said the bond and equities markets were thick with talk that Xerox, whose name has been synonymous with photocopying for decades, was about to seek protection from its creditors by filing for Chapter 11. The rumours also surfaced in chat rooms and bulletin boards on the Internet. 

 The company, which brought back its former chief executive, Paul Allaire, to run the company in May after ousting Rick Thoman as CEO, has been struggling to address a host of difficulties, including falling profit margins and competitive problems. 

 Last week, Xerox said it expected a third-quarter loss of 15 to 20 cents per share, while Wall Street was expecting a 12 cent per share profit. It was the company's fourth warning in five quarters. 

 Then this week the company announced it was to cut its quarterly dividend to 5 cents per share from the previous 20 cents to reduce its cash requirement by an annual $400 million. 

 But those announcements did not mean Xerox was having cash problems, its spokeswoman told Reuters, pointing to the $7 billion credit line. 

 Xerox told analysts last week it is planning "bold actions" and "very dramatic changes" to "change the underpinning of (Xerox's) business model." 

 It already has implemented several costly restructurings in recent years. 

 While analysts expect that Xerox could spin off up to four units, such as its research labs or its low-end printer business, fund managers said the company as a whole could be up for sale. 

 Xerox plans to disclose details of its plans later this month when it issues full third quarter results. 

Document lba0000020010822dwad04a6y




 U.S. tech stocks roar back, post second-largest percent gain. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
735 words
13 October 2000
22:02
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 13 (Reuters) - Technology stocks staged a spectacular rally on Friday, chalking up their second-largest percentage gain ever, as upbeat results from key high-tech companies like Web company Juniper Networks emboldened investors to snatch up battered stocks. 

 The technology-packed Nasdaq Composite soared 242.09 points, or 7.87 percent, to end at 3,316.77, after Thursday's mauling took the index to its lowest closing level since early November 1999. It was the Nasdaq's second-biggest percentage gain after the 7.94 percent jump on May 30, 2000. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average, a gauge of 30 blue-chip companies, rose 157.60 points, or 1.57 percent, to 10,192.18, as it reversed part of Thursday's 379-point slump. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index advanced 44.39 points, or 3.34 percent, to 1,374.17, based on the latest data. 

 The rally also was stoked by easing oil prices and bullish comments from Goldman Sachs' chief strategist, Abby Joseph Cohen, one of Wall Street's top analysts. The market's recent slump is overdone and makes stocks a good buy, especially because a strong U.S. economy will keep boosting corporate profits, she said. 

 "The fact that there's less tension in the Middle East today is 'Reason No. 1' behind the rally and then Juniper and Gateway and PMC-Sierra," said Uri Landemans, chief investment officer at AFA Management Partners, which manages $400 million. "Those were three nice (earnings) calls." 

 Stronger-than-expected inflation data for September cast an early shadow on stocks, but the major market indexes quickly charged into positive territory. 

 The market on Thursday was hit by a bombshell profit warning from home improvement retailer Home Depot and turmoil in the Middle East that sent oil prices soaring. But news that the tension has subsided somewhat also helped fuel Friday's rally. 

 Wall Street has been plagued recently by fears that a soft European single currency, high energy prices and a softening U.S. economy will dampen corporate growth. Oil prices retreated more than $1 a barrel on Friday. 

 Oil shares fell sharply, among those Exxon Mobil Corp., off $3-5/8 to $90-1/2. 

 Three key companies - networking chip maker PMC-Sierra Inc., Internet infrastructure company Juniper Networks and computer maker Gateway Inc. - reported good results, which analysts said sparked a surge in several related stocks Friday. 

 "Juniper is one of the bellwethers for the fiber-optics space, Gateway shows that computer demand is not totally dead and PMC-Sierra says the stocks are probably oversold," Landemans said. 

 Juniper Networks Inc., which posted better-than-expected results as sales jumped more than sixfold, soared $28-57/64 to $228-1/2, for a gain of more than 14 percent. PMC-Sierra saw its shares climb more than 20 percent, or $32 to $190-7/16. 

 Gateway Inc. rallied nearly 22 percent, up $9.48 to $53.11, after its profits and sales met analysts' expectations for the third quarter and the personal computer maker said it saw a strong fourth quarter. 

 Leading the gains among the sectoral indexes, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange semiconductor index shot up a whopping 10 percent. The Nasdaq Internet Index was up 9 percent and the Nasdaq Telecom Index gained 8.42 percent, reflecting the gains in the Web-related and telecommunications issues. 

 Market breadth was very positive on Nasdaq with advancers beating decliners 2 to 1 on volume of 2 billion shares. 

 "The market sold off dramatically over the last few days," said George Rodriguez, senior vice president at Guzman & Co. "There is a feeling many of the names out there are way oversold." 

 But like others on the Street, Rodriguez called it "a cautious rebound" as opposed to the start of strengthening. 

 "We run the risk something unforeseen will happen in the Middle East. We still have the euro, which can affect earnings, and we have a slew of leaders reporting bad numbers," Rodriguez said. 

 Val Kosmider, vice president of international equity trading at Handelsbanken, agreed. 

 "Clearly we were oversold ... but is this the bounce that is going to reverse us into a decent performance for the rest of the year? I think the jury is still very much out on that," Kosmider said. 

Document lba0000020010822dwad049bi




 Xerox bonds smudged by rumors, downgrade. 

 By Nancy Leinfuss 
590 words
13 October 2000
21:19
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 13 (Reuters) - Xerox Corp.'s bonds remained at weak levels on Friday, even after the world's No. 1 photocopier maker dismissed rumours it would seek bankruptcy protection. 

 Xerox's investment-grade bonds, which like junk bonds are now quoted by price rather than by yield spreads, were quoted Friday at 77 cents on the dollar bid, 80 cents offered, traders said. 

 Xerox scotched rumours it was in more trouble than it has let on, saying in a statement that "it has adequate liquidity, including its $7 billion revolving credit agreement, which is available through October 2002." Xerox recently tapped that credit line, it said in a filing this week with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

 A company spokeswoman in Europe told Reuters that "these are misleading market rumours about our company filing for Chapter 11," referring to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code section regarding reorganization. 

 Domenick Fumai, fixed-income analyst at BNP Paribas, does not expect Xerox to file for bankruptcy. 

 "I don't think there's any reason to believe they are in distress," he said. "They are in compliance with the covenants of their revolving credit facility. The only way I envision Xerox filing for Chapter 11 is if there's some material extenuating circumstances that no one is expecting. 

 "I still believe Xerox risks a downgrade to a 'BB' rating if it doesn't do anything to appease the rating agencies, and improve revenues or earnings and cash flow," he added. 

 On Friday, credit rating agency Fitch downgraded Xerox Corp. and its subsidiaries' senior debt rating to "BBB-minus" from "A-minus," just one notch above junk status. 

 Fitch also cut its ratings for the company's U.S. commercial paper programme to "F3" from "F2." 

 Its rating outlook is "negative." The actions reflected the decline in Xerox's financial performance, uncertainties surrounding the company's business model and operating strategy going forward, and the potential for reduced liquidity, Fitch said. 

 Standard & Poor's recently affirmed its "BBB" long-term ratings, two notches above junk, for Xerox and its units, with a "stable" outlook. Several weeks ago, S&P cut those ratings two notches from "A-minus." 

 Moody's Investors Service also cut its long-term ratings for Xerox two notches to "Baa2" from "A3," several weeks ago, with a "stable" outlook. 

 The company, which has been struggling to address falling profit margins by implementing several costly restructurings in recent years, has shed some 85 percent of its stock market valuation since 1999. 

 Last week, the U.S.-based company said it expected a third-quarter loss of 15 to 20 cents a share, while analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial were expecting a profit of 12 cents a share. It was the company's fourth profit warning in five quarters. Xerox should announce third-quarter results later this month. 

 This week the company also said it will cut its quarterly dividend to 5 cents per share from 20 cents to reduce its cash requirement by an annual $400 million. 

 However, the spokeswoman said these announcements did not mean Xerox is having cash problems. 

 Xerox stock closed at $10-7/16, down 11/16, on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock's 52-week high is $32-3/4 and its year low is $10-1/4. 

 Xerox told analysts last week it is planning "bold actions" and "very dramatic changes" to "change the underpinning of (Xerox's) business model." 

Document lba0000020010822dwad0494o




 UPDATE 2-Xerox dismisses Chap. 11 talk, stock at 9-yr low. 

486 words
13 October 2000
17:10
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 13 (Reuters) - Shares of Xerox Corp. hit a nine-year low Friday morning after the struggling photocopier maker dismissed rumours circulating in European securities markets that it would file for U.S. bankruptcy protection. 

 "These are misleading market rumours about our company filing for Chapter 11," a European spokeswoman for the Stamford, Conn.-based company told Reuters in London. 

 In a statement issued separately from the spokeswoman's comment to Reuters, the company said its policy is not to comment on rumours and speculation. 

 "But in order to reassure the markets," the statement said, "the company reaffirmed that it has adequate liquidity including its $7 billion revolving credit agreement, which is available through October 2002, as disclosed in the company's 8-K filing with the SEC (U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission) on October 10." 

 In early New York Stock Exchange trading, Xerox shares fell 10 percent to as low as $10 - a price not seen on the stock since late 1991. In active trade, the stock had by midmorning ticked back up to $10-1/4, down 7/8, or more than 7 percent, on the day. 

 Xerox has shed some 85 percent of its stock market valuation since 1999. 

 Traders across Europe said the bond and equities markets were thick with talk that Xerox, whose name has been synonymous with photocopying for decades, was about to seek protection from its creditors by filing for Chapter 11. The rumours also surfaced in chat rooms and bulletin boards on the Internet. 

 The company, which brought back its former chief executive, Paul Allaire, to run the company in May after ousting Rick Thoman as CEO, has been struggling to address a host of difficulties, including falling profit margins and competitive problems. 

 Last week, Xerox said it expected a third-quarter loss of 15 to 20 cents per share, while Wall Street was expecting a 12 cent per share profit. It was the company's fourth warning in five quarters. 

 Then this week the company announced it was to cut its quarterly dividend to 5 cents per share from the previous 20 cents to reduce its cash requirement by an annual $400 million. 

 But those announcements did not mean Xerox was having cash problems, its spokeswoman told Reuters, pointing to the $7 billion credit line. 

 Xerox told analysts last week it is planning "bold actions" and "very dramatic changes" to "change the underpinning of (Xerox's) business model." 

 It already has implemented several costly restructurings in recent years. 

 While analysts expect that Xerox could spin off up to four units, such as its research labs or its low-end printer business, fund managers said the company as a whole could be up for sale. 

 Xerox plans to disclose details of its plans later this month when it issues full third quarter results. 

Document lba0000020010822dwad048mm




 U.S. stocks barrel higher after fierce sell-off. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
552 words
13 October 2000
16:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 13 (Reuters) - Stocks surged in late morning trading on Friday as investors brushed off strong inflation numbers and reentered a market that had been driven to a new low for the year by warnings of profit shortfalls and a spike in oil prices. 

 "The market sold off dramatically over the last few days," said George Rodriguez, senior vice president at Guzman & Co. "There is a feeling many of the names out there are way oversold." 

 Stronger-than-expected inflation numbers cast an early shadow on stocks, but the major market indexes quickly charged into positive territory. Falling stock prices have made valuations more attractive, according to one of Wall Street's most influential and bullish analysts. 

 The selling that has pounded stocks almost daily has not changed the market's fundamentals and the S&P 500 is undervalued by 15 percent, according to Goldman Sachs' chief strategist, Abby Joseph Cohen. 

 The tech-packed Nasdaq Composite Index jumped 75.96 points, or 2.47 percent, to 3,150.64 after a brief dip. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 104.70 points, or 1.04 percent, to 10,139.28. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index gained 20.41 points, or 1.53 percent, at 1,350.19. 

 "I would call this a cautious rebound as opposed to the start of strengthening," Rodriguez said. "We run the risk something unforeseen will happen in the Middle East. We still have the Euro which can affect earnings, and we have a slew of leaders reporting bad numbers." 

 On Thursday, a profit warning from home improvement giant Home Depot Inc. and a surge in oil prices sparked by Middle East violence sent stocks into a tailspin. 

 Wall Street has also been plagued by fears that a soft European single currency, high energy prices and a softening U.S. economy will dampen corporate growth. 

 Technology heavyweights provided a bright note and oil prices eased off their lofty levels on Friday. 

 Gateway Inc. rallied $7.07 to $50.70 after its profits met analysts' expectations, offering battered investors relief after warnings from other PC makers. 

 International Business Machines Corp., the world's largest computer maker, rose $5 to $108-7/8. Intel Corp., the world's largest chip maker, jumped $2-3/8 to $39-1/2. Computer giant Hewlett-Packard Co. climbed $5 to $88-11/16. All three boosted the Dow. 

 Juniper Networks Inc., a maker of Internet routers that has gained ground against Cisco Systems Inc., late on Thursday posted better than expected results as sales surged more than sixfold. Juniper's stock rose $9-25/64 to $209, while Cisco, the world's biggest maker of computer networking equipment, gained $2-5/8 to $52-7/16. 

 Networking chip maker PMC-Sierra Inc. rose $7-13/16 to $166-1/4 after its profits tripled. 

 Financial stocks, which had been slammed on Thursday, staged a comeback. Citigroup gained $2-3/8 at $49-1/8, while JP Morgan climbed $5-1/2 to $141-1/2 - both supporting the Dow. 

 The market bucked the bad news on inflation. Prices at the wholesale level rose more than expected last month, intensifying investors' worries about nascent inflation. 

Document lba0000020010822dwad048c7




 U.S. stocks seen rising at open, crucial data looms. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
740 words
13 October 2000
13:17
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 13 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were seen bouncing at the open on Friday following steep drops in the prior trading session fuelled by a profit warning from the world's largest home improvement retailer and escalating violence in the Middle East. 

 "We are looking a little bit firmer," said Bryan Piskorowski, a market analyst at Prudential Securities. "But considering how extremely oversold we were, I don't find that much of a surprise." 

 European bourses were already paring early losses as U.S. futures extended gains, but trade remained edgy after stocks here plunged to year lows on Thursday amid an earnings warning from Home Depot Inc. and surging oil prices. Global markets were also eyeing crucial data due before the opening here for clues on the state of the U.S. economy. 

 More than an hour ahead of the opening bell, the Nasdaq 100 index futures for December rose 29.00 points higher at 3,075.50, which may indicate about a 0.8 percent rise in the underlying index. Standard & Poor's 500 index futures nosed up 4.30 points at 1,348.80. 

 September readings on both U.S. retail sales and the Producer Price Index (PPI) will be released at 8:30 a.m. EDT (1230 GMT). Economists said they will be sifting through both reports for clues as to whether the U.S. economy has continued to slow its growth pace in the third quarter or is speeding back up. 

 Economists are forecasting an increase of 0.5 percent in the PPI, a key gauge of inflation at the wholesale level, vs. the 0.2 percent decline seen in August. Excluding energy and food prices, the core PPI is seen posting the same 0.1 percent increase as in August. Also due Friday are retail sales figures for last month. 

 "That data is really what is going to paint today's trade to a certain extent," Piskorowski said. "One thing we can take away from the last couple of days is how we open doesn't matter - it's how we close. We have had ill-fated rallies that have seen nothing in the way of sustainability and follow-through." 

 After the market closed on Thursday, technology bellwethers provided a bright note to a dreary day on Wall Street. Personal computer maker Gateway Inc. said third-quarter profit rose 35 percent, meeting analysts' expectations, offering battered technology investors some relief after financial warnings from other PC makers. 

 Juniper Networks Inc., a maker of Internet routers that has gained ground against Cisco Systems Inc., late on Thursday reported a third-quarter profit, better than forecasts, as sales surged more than sixfold. 

 On Thursday, the Dow Jones industrial average, a gauge of 30 leading companies, fell 379.21 points, or 3.64 percent, to end at 10,034.58 - its fifth-largest point slide ever and its lowest close since March 14, 2000. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index finished at 3,074.68, its lowest close since Nov. 4, 1999. The Nasdaq fell 93.81 points on Thursday for a loss of 2.96 percent. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index slumped 34.81 points, or 2.55 percent, at 1,329.78, in its lowest close to date this year. 

 Wall Street has been swamped by fears that high oil prices, a slowing U.S. economy and a weak European single currency would depress corporate America's earnings. 

 In the latest shock to jittery investors, oil prices bolted back to near-decade highs amid panic buying sparked by fears of disruptions to the flow of crude oil from the oil-rich Middle East. 

 U.S. crude oil rose as high as $37 a barrel, a jump of $3.75, on news of the attack on the U.S. Navy destroyer Cole in Yemen, which killed at least five U.S. sailors. There was also more Israel-Palestinian violence. 

 The profound weakness in blue chips also followed a warning from No. 1 home improvement retailer Home Depot that its future profits would fall short of forecasts. That aggravated fears of softer corporate growth that have pounded Wall Street almost daily since the end of August. 

 The Dow got dangerously close to breaching the psychologically important 10,000 level, which it has not sunk below since mid-March. 

Document lba0000020010822dwad047bm




 Home Depot Warns of a Profit Shortfall --- Stock Is Hammered by 29%, Home-Improvement Chain's Biggest One-Day  Decline 

 By Rich Brooks 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
786 words
13 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 ATLANTA -- Home Depot Inc. shares suffered their biggest one-day decline ever after the retailer warned that profits will fall short of expectations during its fiscal third and fourth quarters, partly because the economy is slowing. 

 The announcement shocked investors, many of whom had hung on to their Home Depot shares despite a six-month slump caused by worries that do-it-yourself shoppers might reduce their spending on fix-it projects. Home Depot shares plunged 28%, erasing $33 billion from the company's market value and contributing to the big decline in the Dow Jones Industrial Average yesterday. 

 In its first profit warning in more than five years, the world's largest home-improvement chain said it now expects to report net income of about 28 cents a diluted share for its third quarter ending Oct. 31, lower than the average estimate of 31 cents a share from 22 analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. While it didn't provide an exact projection for the fourth quarter, Home Depot also indicated that it expects to earn roughly 26 cents a share in that quarter, far less than the previous Wall Street estimate of 31 cents. 

 Home Depot stock plummeted $13.88 to $35.06 in 4 p.m. New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock's tumble accounted for 83 points of the blue-chip index's decline of 379.21 points. 

 Other retail stocks sank on fears that Home Depot's problems could be a sign that six interest-rate increases by the Federal Reserve since the middle of 1999 are causing consumers to rein in purchases. 

 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. fell $1.19 to $44.13, while Target Corp. slipped 63 cents to $22.75, and Best Buy Co. plunged $6.19 to $42.31. Lowe's Cos., the No. 2 home-improvement retailer, sagged $3.25 to $37.81, also on the Big Board. 

 Home Depot officials blamed the profit shortfall mostly on lower prices for building materials such as lumber and drywall, as well as difficult comparisons against last year's results, when sales got a big boost from purchases tied to hurricane-rebuilding efforts on the East Coast and preparations for the year-2000 computer glitch. 

 But Arthur M. Blank, the company's president and chief executive officer, also acknowledged that the economy is in "a malaise to a certain extent." He insisted, though, that the consequences of the slowdown would be relatively minor, adding that Home Depot has no plans to reduce its longstanding annual per-share-earnings growth target of between 23% and 25%, despite failing to hit that target this year. 

 Still, such a big stumble by the company that helped spark a home-improvement revolution and ran numerous smaller rivals out of business with its 1,027 huge, orange stores left some analysts and investors wondering if Home Depot is starting to run out of room to grow. 

 "This is a cyclical business," said Mark D. Mandel, an analyst in the Robinson-Humphrey Co. unit of Citigroup Inc. "People tend to forget these things when you have such a long period of prosperity." 

 Home Depot's Mr. Blank said the retailer has "an unchanged commitment to growth" and would continue to increase its store count by about 20% a year. In a memo to employees, Mr. Blank added that "the home-improvement business has never been on more solid ground." A company spokesman said customer traffic and the size of the average purchase are "solid and stable and growing at very acceptable rates" in most product categories. 

 Home Depot said it expects sales in stores open at least a year to climb about 4% in the current quarter, compared with its previous estimate of 5% to 7%. The biggest problem: Lumber and drywall prices, down at least 25% from a year ago, didn't rebound as Home Depot had hoped. The company also said it mistakenly thought it could boost sales enough to overcome last year's challenging quarterly comparisons. 

 But some analysts said those factors don't fully explain Home Depot's current situation. "I still can't get everything to square up on the numbers," said Dan R. Wewer, an analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, a subsidiary of Deutsche Bank AG. "It looks to me like there is something above and beyond deflation affecting their business." 

 For last year's fiscal third quarter, Home Depot posted net of $573 million, or 25 cents a share, on sales of $9.88 billion. 

Document j000000020010807dwad00qso




Market Reaction
ANews
Dow dives as events unnerve investors

PAUL GORES AND KATHLEEN GALLAGHER; Journal Sentinel staff   
966 words
13 October 2000
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
MLWK
Final
01
English
Copyright 2000, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Trouble in the Middle East sent a nervous stock market into a nose dive Thursday as shares suffered their biggest one-day drop in six months.

For investors, it was a case of a heaping helping of bad news -- way too much for the markets to digest in one day.

The morning dawned with an apparent terrorist attack on a U.S. naval vessel and more bloody clashes between Israelis and Palestinians. That would lead to another spike in the price of crude oil. Then came a profit warning from a key member of the Dow 30 index.

And it all happened before the markets opened at 8:30 a.m. Central Daylight Time.

On top of that, the bad news Thursday came after several weeks of tepid trading, as technology stocks in particular have taken a beating.

The result was about as ugly a day as we've seen on Wall Street in months.

The Dow Jones industrial average plummeted 379.21 points to 10,034.58, a 3.6% decline and its largest tumble since April 14. It was the Dow's fifth-biggest point decrease ever.

The Standard & Poor's 500 Index fell 34.81 points, while the Nasdaq continued its autumn plunge, losing 93.81 points. The tech-heavy Nasdaq is off 27.4% since Sept. 1.

At the same time, oil price futures shot up more than 8% Thursday to $36.06 per barrel, touching off concerns about heating oil supplies and the price of gasoline. That, in turn, spurred worries about inflation.

Rocking the boat

Stocks prices, which have been stumbling to adjust to a slowdown in earnings growth as the economy aims for a soft landing, were rocked by news of rising tensions between Israelis and Palestinians and the possible effect of that conflict on oil supplies from the region. What the Pentagon figures was a terrorist attack against the Navy destroyer USS Cole in Yemen added to the uneasiness.

"The market doesn't like uncertainty, and that's a big uncertainty," said Barry Berman, managing director of equity trading for Robert W. Baird & Co. in Milwaukee.

The market got off on the wrong foot Thursday morning with the announcement by Home Depot, the largest retailer of home improvement products, that it would miss second-half earnings forecasts, mainly because of material costs. Home Depot shares fell $13.81, or 28%, to $35.13.

The news from Home Depot sent other retailers down as well, including Wal-Mart, which fell $1.19 to $44.13. Financial stocks, which tend to be sensitive to inflation concerns, also suffered.

With October historically a spooky month for the stock market and a pervading atmosphere of gloom because of worse-than-expected earnings reports, financial experts were at a loss to predict what today might bring.

"We had an awful lot of bad news today, with the Middle Eastern developments and the oil price and the bad earnings from Home Depot," said Jay N. Mueller, economist for Strong Investments in Menomonee Falls.

Christopher J. Grant, president of Nacker & Grant Inc. in Brookfield, said "there's a bunch of wild cards in the air."

"The oil has certainly been one wild card. The Middle East is kind of gasoline on the fire, which will disappear in a while. But right now, in an already jittery market, it certainly doesn't help," Grant said.

Selling season

For many investors, the strain on the market and the prospect that big gains of the past few years are over have led to a selling mentality mode. Declining shares outnumbered advancing shares on the New York Stock Exchange by more than 3 to 1 on volume of 1.36 billion shares.

"Once you get people nervous and upset and the markets start going one way, there are a lot of people that just kind of jump on the selling bandwagon," Mueller said.

That was reflected in the increasing frequency of margin calls. TD Waterhouse Group Inc. and other online brokers said recent stock-market tumbles are forcing clients to pay for losses on shares held as collateral against loans.

But professional investors weren't as beaten down as the market Thursday.

"If you've been paying attention, this is the soft landing. People may think it's hard, but for the economy, it's the soft landing," said Michael A. Roth, principal of Stark Investments LP in Mequon.

He and other analysts and money managers say the market is reacting to the Federal Reserve-driven slowdown that was intended to take some of the excess steam out of the market.

Consequently, the stock market is moving from a breakneck speed to a more normal cruising pace.

That doesn't mean stock prices -- especially for the Nasdaq -- will return to their previously stratospheric levels.

Grant and other professional investors don't think the market volatility indicates that big economic problems loom.

Berman believes that once the market moves past the period for corporate earnings warnings, which essentially ends next week, and the mutual fund manager selling period, the big issue will be the Middle East.

"The only thing that makes you pause is that tomorrow's news could change everything," Roth said.

------------

The Associated Press and Bloomberg News contributed to this report.

Chain of events leading to Thursday's sell-off in U.S. equity markets: (All times central)

5:25 a.m. - Israeli soldiers killed in Palestinian town, military sources say.

6:04 a.m. - Home Depot says third-quarter eranings will miss expectations.

6:40 a.m. - U.S. ship deliberately rammed, Pentagon says.

7:59 a.m. - Israeli helicopter fires rocket at Palestinian town of Ramallah.

Document MLWK000020100320dwad017oj




Computers
It's Tech Wreck II as nervy investors desert the ship

Tony Boyd and wire services   
578 words
13 October 2000
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
Late
71
English
Copyright 2000. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

It is being called Tech Wreck II the technology and telecommunications shake-out that is threatening to undermine business confidence in the United States and Europe.

The latest plunge in technology share prices is being likened in savagery to the tech wreck in April when Nasdaq fell 32 per cent in less than a month.

Nasdaq has fallen 25 per cent since September 1, but the new selling wave is being led by large technology-related companies that make profits, rather than loss-making dot coms.

"A convergence of factors is battering financial markets and the impact on the US economy and business is already being felt," said Mr Abraham Gulkowitz, chief global strategist at Deutsche Alex Brown.

"Telecom indigestion, other tech setbacks, presidential politics, euro sluggishness and oil worries are eroding confidence in business, government and financial markets."

Mr Gulkowitz said there was a serious rethinking of credit and portfolio exposures in the telco sector because of "massive new financing needs combined with intensified competition".

The shake-out is not confined to the US as was shown yesterday after a profit warning by Motorola, the world's second largest maker of mobile phones.

Motorola shares fell 19 per cent, wiping $US10.5 billion ($19.6 billion) from its market capitalisation after it said fourth-quarter and 2001 earnings would lag forecasts as growth in semi-conductor sales and cell-phone profits decline.

The news hit the shares of most other companies in the telco sector in Europe and the US. In Europe, Ericsson shares fell 6 per cent, Nokia Corp fell 5.4 per cent, Alcatel 9 per cent and Siemens 3.4 per cent.

Markets will wait anxiously for the release of Ericsson's third-quarter results on October 20 and Nokia's on October 26.

Ericsson, which is still struggling to make its mobile handset division profitable, has said it will give up mobile phone production if it does not reach break-even within three quarters. Nokia said last quarter that it hoped to increase mobile phone sales volume at the expense of both Motorola and Ericsson.

The telco market has been nervous for months because investors fear that certain new technologies might not live up to their promise.

Adding to telco woes was further negative news from the internet sector.

Shares in Yahoo!, a profit-making internet portal, fell 12 per cent after it failed to convince analysts that internet ad revenues were being sustained at high levels.

"The stockmarket reacted to the short-term concerns, and people have given up on the long-term promise," said Mr Mitch Bartlett, a senior research analyst at Amerindo Investment Advisors which owns Yahoo! shares.

Mr Bartlett and others said some investors were worried that the company's revenue growth did not warrant its sky-high valuation and some are pulling back for that reason alone.

And what happened to Yahoo!'s stock yesterday might be due to a more basic change in how investors valued internet companies, some analysts said.

"People are finally viewing these companies as what they are, not abstract internet names i.e. Amazon is a retailer and Yahoo is a media company," said one portfolio manager.

KEY POINTS

The latest IT and telco shakeout threatens confidence in the US and Europe.

This selling wave is being led by large tech-related companies that make profits.

Document AFNR000020111227dwad00qxl




 Business; Financial Desk 
 MARKETS Wall Street Poised for Next Blow as Bad News Mounts Analysis: As resilient as the market has been throughout its decade-long run, many pros say, it can withstand only so much. 

 WALTER HAMILTON 
TIMES STAFF WRITER
1,047 words
13 October 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-1
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 What else can go wrong? 

 That question was being muttered up and down Wall Street on Thursday as an already deeply troubled stock market got blindsided by more bad news. 

 The surprise profit warning from once-dependable growth company Home Depot Inc. intensified fears about a weakening economy, while escalating tensions in the Middle East raised the specter of a Gulf War-like bear market. 

 Taken together, they added to surging concerns that domestic and global woes are far more serious than investors had imagined. 

 Many market bulls cling to the notion that stocks' latest decline, which began the first week of September, is nearing an end. They say that a host of factors--including the frenzied dumping of many shares at any price this week--suggest that the selling is reaching a peak. 

 "It strikes me as it can't get much worse," said Richard Eakle, head of investment firm Eakle Associates in Fair Haven, N.J. 

 Even so, many pros also are thinking about other shoes that may yet drop on the bull market, or what's left of it. 

 The key concern, of course, is that as resilient as the market has been throughout its decade-long run, it can withstand only so many blows. 

 In recent months, energy prices have risen much more sharply than many experts predicted, the euro currency has fallen much more steeply than expected, and major technology companies have warned of sales and earnings weakness that few analysts anticipated. 

 Beyond the most obvious catalyst for a deeper market plunge--the outbreak of widespread conflict in the Middle East--here are some of the potential threats Wall Street is most concerned about now: 

 * Corporate earnings growth weakens even more than expected, and more companies warn of additional trouble. Since early September, 416 companies have issued earnings "pre-announcements," and 67% of those have been warnings of weaker-than-expected results, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 That's up sharply from the 58%-negative ratio in the second quarter. 

 What concerns investors now is that the warnings haven't yet stopped--as Home Depot demonstrated Thursday. More important, if more companies begin to guide analysts lower in their estimates of fourth-quarter and 2001 results, it could magnify concerns about an economic slowdown here and in Europe and trigger a new wave of selling, pros say. 

 With many companies' stocks still historically high relative to underlying earnings, investors won't be willing to suffer any suggestions that earnings growth will decelerate further, analysts say. 

 Still, many pros also caution against undue pessimism about earnings. Indeed, on Thursday some technology companies had good news to report. Fiber-optics giant Corning Inc. said its third-quarter results will top expectations. The stock gained $2.88 to $86. Networking firm Juniper Networks reported quarterly results that exceeded estimates. Its shares rose to $207 in after-hours trading after falling $6.39 to $199.61 in regular trading. 

 * Debt problems surge among consumers and businesses. Experts have long worried that many consumers and companies have taken on excessive debt during the long economic boom. 

 In an economic slowdown, more individuals and companies may have trouble making their debt payments. At the corporate level, an unexpected debt-repayment surprise at a large company could spur a fresh wave of selling in stocks of highly leveraged companies, some say. 

 This week, junk-bond yields have surged on such credit fears. Brokerage Morgan Stanley Dean Witter on Wednesday had to stifle rumors that it had suffered huge losses in junk-bond trading. 

 But on Thursday, investors again hammered shares of many financial companies, a reflection of the concerns over possible bond and loan losses in a weaker economy. Morgan Stanley slid $7 to $70.75, Citigroup dropped $2.75 to $46.75 and Bank of America lost $2.50 to $44.56. 

 * The dollar plummets as foreign investors bail out of U.S. securities. U.S. stock and bond markets have been driven in recent years in part by heavy buying by European and Japanese investors. Indeed, along with the massive U.S. trade deficit, that foreign investment shows our reliance on foreign capital. 

 "Perhaps the worst thing we can see--and we haven't seen it yet--is foreigners losing faith" in U.S. securities, said Bill Meehan, chief market analyst at institutional brokerage Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. 

 A plunging dollar could force the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates to defend the currency. 

 So far, many market bulls are clinging to the opposite idea: that the Fed will, at some point, be moved to cut interest rates to support the market and keep the economy from slowing too sharply. 

 "The [Middle East] crisis and spike in oil [prices] may force the Fed to backpedal and lower interest rates," Eakle said. 

 However, that assessment is far from universal. 

 Robert W. Bissell, chief investment officer of Wells Capital Management, puts the odds of a rate cut at only 1 in 3. The Fed doesn't want to risk inflation and won't feel compelled to "bail people out of their stock portfolios," he said. 

 * Panicked individual investors begin to bail out of stock mutual funds. So far, there is no sign of significant selling on the part of fund investors. As they have throughout the 1990s, many individuals in funds are sitting tight through the latest market crisis. 

 But if that were to shift, and fund managers were to face massive cash-out requests from individuals, it could worsen any market decline. 

 Redemptions could pose a more serious problem now than in the past because mutual fund managers tend to keep relatively little cash on hand, preferring to stay fully invested in the market. 

 As of the end of August, the average stock mutual fund held just 4.7% of assets in cash, down from 5% in July, according to the funds' chief trade group, the Investment Company Institute. 

 With little cash on hand, funds might have to turn immediately to selling stocks to meet redemptions. 

Document latm000020010808dwad021ju




 Financial Post 
 Investors head for the exits at Imax 

 Zena Olijnyk 
Financial Post
624 words
13 October 2000
National Post
FINP
National
C01 / Front
English
 (c) National Post 2000. All Rights Reserved. 

 Investors hammered the price of Imax Corp. stock down by 70% yesterday, reacting to a profit warning and wondering what the future holds for the big-screen theatre company. 

 One analyst, Marina Jacobson of Bear Stearns Co., suggested Imax, which has been seeking a buyer since July, would now fetch only US$14 to US$16 a share in a private market transaction, about half of what had been hoped for. 

 Shares of Imax, which operates more than 200 big-screen theatres around the world, plunged $15.25, or 70%, to close at $6.55, on volume of 2.5 million shares, on the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday, after hitting a low of $6.05 earlier. The stock had traded in a 52-week range of $20 to $43. 

 On Nasdaq, Imax shares closed at US$4 9/32, down US$10 7/32. 

 Investors seemed prepared to punish Imax after it said on Wednesday it would post a "modest loss" for the third quarter and predicted profit for the year would be half of what had been forecast. 

 The company said its earnings for fiscal 2000 would be in the range of US60 cents to US70 cents a share. A First Call/Thomson Financial survey of five analysts before the profit warning had a mean third-quarter estimate of US23 cents a share and US$1.24 a share for the fiscal year. 

 The company cited a weakening in the North American exhibition industry and an increase in the money it was spending on developing digital technologies. 

 "Imax earnings profile has been altered dramatically from a compelling growth story to one which will experience a significant decline this year followed by a flattish profile in 2001," Tim Casey, an analyst with BMO Nesbitt Burns, wrote in a note issued yesterday. 

 "The outlook beyond that depends on the speed and breadth of the recovery of the domestic exhibition business and how fast Imax can ramp up its digital projection technology." 

 Mr. Casey added he expects there will "be more selling pressure on the stock in the near term." 

 Richard Gelfond and Bradley Wechsler, Imax's co-chief executive officers, could not be reached for comment yesterday. But in a statement Wednesday, they said "the financial state of the commercial exhibition industry and the North American multiplex operators in particular continues to worsen and impact our delivery schedules. 

 "While we are very disappointed at our reduced earnings expectations, we continue to be optimistic about Imax's future, as most recently evidenced by our strong third-quarter signings." 

 The shares of Imax have been hit in recent weeks by investors worried about the long-term growth prospects of the entertainment industry, where the big theatre chains are struggling to stay afloat after a splurge of overbuilding. 

 Said Nesbitt Burns analyst Mr. Casey: "The carnage in the exhibition sector has been obvious for roughly one year, but the depth and breadth of the strain is significantly more than we anticipated. Our critical error was in overestimating the company's ability to insulate itself from the damage based on brisk international demand as well as limited exposure to some of the weaker domestic chains." 

 Ms. Jacobson, the analyst at Bear Stearns Co., said theatre operators "need to work out leases, a lot are overleveraged, they need to work out their debt issues, it's not a quick fix." 

 She said in a morning note published yesterday that Imax could be taken out at about US$6 a share, assuming a price of 10 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of US$82.5-million (down from US$124.7 million). 

zolijnyk@nationalpost

Document finp000020010806dwad00p98




 Companies: U.S. Companies 

456 words
12 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Sony, Microsoft Plan 

 European Video Venture 

 SAN FRANCISCO  -- Sony Corp. and Microsoft Corp. said they will jointly develop an Internet service in Europe that will feature videos of artists from Sony's record label. The service, which will initially be tailored for audiences who speak German and Swedish, will broadcast videos and other programming in Microsoft's Windows Media format. The service, which has not yet been named, will be offered on portions of Microsoft's MSN online service as well as through Sony's Web facilities, the companies said. (Staff) 

 --- 

 Gates Fund Gives $210 Million 

 SAN FRANCISCO -- The charitable foundation started by Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill Gates has given $210 million (240.8 million euros) to fund scholarships for graduate students, particularly those from developing countries, at the University of Cambridge in England. The grant sets up a trust that will run in perpetuity, and it will fund tuition, living expenses and travel for about 225 scholars at a time, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation said. The program highlights the foundation's increasing involvement in education issues, in addition to world-wide health and vaccine programs. (Staff) 

 --- 

 Nordstrom Expects Weak Results 

 CHICAGO -- Nordstrom Inc., hit with more weak sales and a number of one-time charges, said it expects to break even or post a small loss in third fiscal quarter, badly missing analysts' expectations. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected the company to post net income of 24 U.S. cents (27.5 European cents) a share for the quarter ending Oct. 31. The announcement marks the second straight quarter the Seattle-based department store has issued a profit warning. In the third quarter last year, Nordstrom earned $45.4 million, or 35 cents a share, on sales of $1.45 billion. For the current quarter, Nordstrom said general expenses, markdowns and disappointing sales would cut operating results by four to seven cents a share. It also said it would take charges of between $41 million and $43 million, or 19 to 20 cents a share, for the period. (Staff) 

 --- 

 Cruiser's Launch Delayed 

 MIAMI -- Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. said it will delay the launch of its newest cruise ship, the Infinity, by four weeks. The company said it expects the bulk of any costs associated with the delay to be covered by the shipbuilder, Chantiers de L'Atlantique in France. The company said it hasn't yet determined the cost of the delay, which reflects additional time needed to complete the ship, including interior space and an exterior buffer. Royal Caribbean said it will reschedule the first three cruises to March from February, 2001, and cancel two cruises that had been scheduled for March. (Staff) 

Document wsje000020010814dwac00g5g




 MORGAN Stanley's Barton Biggs recently wrote in a strategy piece that "Nasdaq is driving the world's economies". 

 By R Sivanithy. 
568 words
12 October 2000
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

 MORGAN Stanley's Barton Biggs recently wrote in a strategy piece that "Nasdaq is driving the world's economies". Perhaps he should have written "Nasdaq is driving the world's stock markets", given the way the local and regional markets collapsed yesterday after the havoc wreaked on the US technology board. 

 Emphasising just how much influence Nasdaq exerted was the fact that for all of the morning session the top gainers' list was headed by the Mayfran 2002 warrant with only a two-cent rise to 15 cents. 

 Not surprisingly, tech stocks and contract manufacturers were singled out for special attention, following US computer firm Lucent Technologies' after-hours profit warning on Tuesday. The Nasdaq futures contract, however, did not plunge by as much as might have been expected. 

 Investors, though, drew no comfort from this. Brokers, for one, were worried fund redemptions have not really kicked in yet. As an institutional source noted: "When there's redemptions, you have big volume coming through and we've not seen this yet." Excluding foreign currency issues, 244 million units worth $484.3 million were traded, compared with $466.1 million on Tuesday. 

 Also of concern was that local margin calls and forced selling have not been triggered in any big way - yet. 

 Top losers included previous tech favourites Chartered Semiconductor, NatSteel Electronics, Creative Technology, Omni Industries, JIT and Venture Manufacturing. And with the selling spilling over to all other sectors, the Straits Times Index closed at its day low, 67.25 points or 3.5 per cent down at 1,846.56. 

 Even the switching from New to Old Economy stocks that was detected in previous sessions was absent yesterday, resulting in a dismal advance-decline score of 63-262. The hardest-hit victim was Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing, which crashed $1.35 or 15 per cent to $7.65 on volume of 7.8 million. 

 In a BT online poll, 43 per cent of respondents said they thought Monday's plunge heralded the "beginning of the end" - certainly a sentiment that was felt throughout the market yesterday. 

 But amid the carnage there were glimmers of hope. Prudential-Bache's John Schofield, for example, said: "We are looking for a buying opportunity in the Asian Tech-Media-Telecom sectors, especially quality telcos which have been heavily oversold. However, the issue is timing and we are waiting for the Nasdaq panic wave to break before stepping up to the plate." 

 The advice given was to go for low-beta, high-yielding stocks - with beta defined as the sensitivity relative to the main market benchmark. When the index plunges, a low-beta stock therefore qualifies as a defensive counter since it should fall by less than the index. 

 After identifying several possibilities in Hongkong, PB said: "In Singapore, the choice is more limited as the majority of large caps are closely correlated to the Straits Times Index, but Singapore Telecom is the main exception. Also, Hong kong Land." 

 Curiously, SingTel yesterday weathered the storm a lot better than other blue chips, losing just five cents at $2.63. Its day low was $2.60, prompting a dealer to remark: "Throughout all the selling of the past few weeks, SingTel has been very resilient, trading between $2.60 and $2.70." 

Document stbt000020010817dwac009t9




 U.S. stocks sharply lower as oil, earnings press. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
570 words
12 October 2000
20:19
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 12 (Reuters) - Blue-chip stocks were sharply lower in late afternoon trading on Thursday with key market gauges threatening to hit lows for the year after Wall Street was spooked by a profit warning from Home Depot Inc. and escalating Middle East violence that sent oil prices soaring. 

 "This market is not in a strong enough state to handle shocks from bad news," said Ed Peters, chief investment strategist and director of asset allocation at PanAgora Asset Management Inc. 

 The profound weakness, which spread to the technology sector, came after the giant home retailer Home Depot warned of an earnings shortfall. The news aggravated fears of softer corporate growth that have pounded Wall Street almost daily since the end of August. Home Depot skidded more than 27 percent, or $13-7/16, to $35-1/2 - hitting its lowest point since January 1999. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average was down 297.08 points, or 2.85 percent, at 10,116.71, flirting with the psychologically important 10,000 level which it has not sunk below since mid-March. 

 The slide, roughly half of the Dow's largest ever point loss of 618 on April 14, came mostly on the savaging of the shares of Home Depot and investment bank J.P. Morgan. The two stocks' combined losses scalped 130 points from the Dow. 

 Meanwhile, oil prices skyrocketed to near decade highs as fears of disruptions to the flow of crude oil from the oil-rich Middle East rose. Giving a lift to oil shares like Dow component Exxon Mobil Corp, U.S. crude oil rose as high as $37 a barrel, a jump of $3.75, on news of the assault on U.S. Navy destroyer USS Cole in Yemen, and more Israel-Palestinian violence. 

 Wall Street has been swamped by fears that high oil prices, a slowing U.S. economy and a weak European single currency will depress corporate America's earnings. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was down 23.95 points, or 1.76 percent, at 1,340.64. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index was down 56.22 points, or 1.77 percent, at 3,112.27, dropping below its May 23 closing low for the year of 3,164.55. 

 The tech-packed index had jerked in and out of positive territory throughout the session, and was pressured by a drop in Internet-related issues like Cisco Systems, or Juniper Networks, in addition to software and telecommunications companies. 

 "The market is nervous and the sentiment is sour. The Middle East tension and the higher energy prices helped push lower a market was already falling," said Alan Ackerman, senior vice president and market strategist at Fahnestock & Co. 

 "The mood of the market is tied to the number of corporate earnings and revenue disappointments of which Home Depot, Motorola and Lucent are three examples," Ackerman said, referring to two other companies that have issued such warnings this week. 

 The drop in Home Depot shares put the heat on the shares of other retailers like Wal-Mart Stores, which dropped $2 to $43-5/16. 

 J.P. Morgan fell $8-1/4 at $138-9/16, leading a decline in the financial sector on what some analysts said were jitters over a worsening outlook for the interest-rate sensitive sector. 

Document lba0000020010822dwac04em9




 UPDATE 1-Bausch & Lomb profits up slightly, to  cut  450 jobs. 

637 words
12 October 2000
13:31
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 12 (Reuters) - Bausch & Lomb Inc., trying to regain investor confidence after a profit warning and firing its president, on Thursday posted a slight rise in third-quarter earnings, warned about fourth-quarter and 2001 results and said it will cut 4 percent of its work force. 

 The Rochester, N.Y.-based maker of contact lenses, lens-care products and eye-surgery equipment said it plans to cut about 450 non-manufacturing positions over the next several months. The reductions, which will take place mainly in North America, will help cut costs by $20 million to $30 million annually and result in a fourth-quarter charge. 

 It also warned that continued deterioration of currency rates will pull down fourth-quarter and 2001 earnings. 

 Bausch & Lomb reported income from continuing operations for the third quarter of $37.8 million, or 70 cents a share, excluding certain charges, compared with $37.3 million, or 64 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenues from continuing operations slipped to $440.9 million from $446.3 million. 

 Including unusual items, net earnings were $14.7 million, or 27 cents per share, compared with $231.8 million, or $3.94 per share, in the same period last year. 

 The 147 year-old company's operating earnings matched Wall Street estimates that were significantly cut after the company on Aug. 24 warned that demand for lens-care products would lead to flat or slightly lower revenue for the rest of the year. Fifteen analysts polled by research firm First Call/Thomson Financial lowered the consensus earnings forecast to 70 cents a share from 93 cents. 

 Bausch & Lomb stock, which lost more than a third of its value on the late summer warning and firing of then-President and Chief Operating Officer Carl Sassano, has failed to rebound. Shares closed on Wednesday at $39-1/16, down 5/16 for the day on the New York Stock Exchange, above its 52-week low of $33-9/16 and well below a year high of $80-7/8. 

 A 2 percent fall in the company's vision care sales and an 8 percent drop in revenue at the pharmaceuticals business slowed Bausch & Lomb quarterly profits. The surgical segment saw a four percent rise in sales. 

 "The results we reported today were, on the whole, in line with the updated guidance we issued earlier in the quarter," William Carpenter, Bausch & Lomb's chairman and chief executive officer, said. 

 "Revenues were somewhat lower than our expectations as a result of further deterioration in currency rates since August and the timing of laser installations," he said. 

 Carpenter added that increased spending on its Envision product and currency issues will reduce fourth-quarter results "between $0.08 and $.10 per share from current consensus estimates." Currency will also drag on 2001 earnings by another $0.14 to $0.16 per share, adjusting the company's estimates to be in the range of $2.70 to $2.75 in 2001. 

 Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial expect the eye care company to post fourth-quarter earnings of $0.83 per share and a profit of $2.86 in 2001. 

 The job cuts come as a follow-up to naming new regional managers in September to target areas for cost savings, which marked the first step of a restructuring. The reductions will have an estimated cost of about $30-35 million and will be recorded as a charge in the fourth quarter. 

 "We will reinvest the savings generated by the restructuring actions to accelerate the longer-term growth of the company," said Carpenter. "The cost savings we have identified also increase our confidence in our ability to meet our revised 2001 expectations." 

Document lba0000020010822dwac04ees

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))   Date10/01/2000 to 10/31/2000   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectCorporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found237   Timestamp27 March 2018 10:21  


















•	  Kingfisher drops as takeover prospects fade. 
•	 Bausch & Lomb profits edge higher, to  cut  450 jobs.
•	  UPDATE 1-Maytag third-quarter net drops 27 pct, as expected. 
•	  UPDATE 4-Maytag net drops 27 percent. 
•	 UPDATE 3-Bausch & Lomb profits up, to  cut  450 jobs.
•	  UPDATE 5-Maytag net drops 27 percent. 
•	 UPDATE 3-Home Depot shares skid after  profit warning .
•	  UPDATE 3-Maytag net drops 27 percent. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Maytag net drops 27 percent. 
•	 U.S.  Profit Warning  Trips London Stock Market
•	 Alaska Air Says Profit Won't Meet Forecasts; Shares  Decline  by 14%
•	 Perot Can't  Cut  His Old Company Down to Size
•	  Nordstrom Says Quarterly Loss Is Possible 
•	  European Corporate Bonds Dented By Equities Tailspin 
•	 LUCENT CEO UNDER PRESSURE
•	  European Corporate Bonds Dented By Equities Tailspin 
•	  Tech profit fears spook markets: Lucent, Motorola issue warnings: From Europe to Asia, Nasdaq's woes are hitting exchanges 
•	 Companies: Xerox Slashes Its Quarterly Dividend ---  Cut  to Five Cents a Share Comes Amid Pressure to Boost Profitability
•	  Singapore shares driven lower by techs at midday. 
•	  Dollar up from lows, foreigners load up on JGBs. 
•	  U.S. stocks set to swoon as earnings woes mount. 
•	 FOREX-Dollar loses shine as U.S. stocks  decline .
•	  Before the Bell - Lucent lower after warning. 
•	  Lucent seen sending Wall St lower at open. 
•	 UPDATE 1-Lucent off 31 percent after latest  profit warning .
•	  U.S. tech stocks slide under mounting profit woes. 
•	 Lucent off 31 percent after latest  profit warning .
•	  Lucent CEO McGinn under pressure after warning. 
•	  Euro rises to week's highs vs dollar in Europe. 
•	  Lucent's stock plummets - chairman comes under fire. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Lucent Chairman McGinn faces pressure after warning. 
•	 WestPoint Stevens Shares  Decline  16% On Second  Profit Warning  in Two Weeks
•	 Theater Chain GC Files for Bankruptcy; Imax Issues  Profit Warning
•	  Good ARM Results Aren't Valium For Chipmaker Investors 
•	  Alcatel: On Track To Meet 3rd Quarter Profit, Rev Targets 
•	  MARKET TALK: Analysts See Lucent's Drop As Nortel's Gain 
•	  MARKET TALK: Inktomi Takes Double Hit - Market And Merger 
•	  MARKET TALK: Knight Trading Still Seen As Buy Candidate 
•	  MARKET TALK: GE Delivers Again, But Shares Ease 
•	  MARKET TALK: New Pre-Open Index For Nasdaq 100 
•	  MARKET TALK: PacifiCare Warning Not A Short-Term Miss 
•	  MARKET TALK: Global Crossing Management Strong, Salomon Says 
•	  MARKET TALK: Alaska Air Warning Co. Specific 
•	  Asian stocks slump on fears over US markets 
•	 NEW DISCLOSURE REGULATION OPENS UP THE PROCESS  
•	 The gloom goes on: Lucent: shares of telecom giant fall on  profit warning , concern over debt.(Lucent Technologies)(Company Financial Information)
•	 THE CAROLINAS
•	  NYSE Update 
•	  Xerox Cuts Quarterly Dividend To Five Cents Per Share --- Move Comes Amid Pressure to Boost Profitability 
•	  UPDATE1-US linen maker WestPoint cuts profit outlook. 
•	  Xerox Slashes Its Dividend To Five Cents 
•	  Chips, Earnings Jitters Pressure Tech Shares 
•	  Lucent Issues 4th Quarter Warning As It Will Miss Lowered Numbers 
•	 Companies: Veeco Issues  Profit Warning ; Executive Resigns
•	  UPDATE 1-DaimlerChrysler pools e-business in new unit. 
•	  Singapore NatSteel Elec: Apple Hasn't Canceled Contracts 
•	  Williams-Sonoma Latest Casualty Of Slowing Economy 
•	  REVIEW & PREVIEW 
•	  LUCENT VIES TO WIN BACK CUSTOMERS CEO RICH MCGINN SEEKS TO TURN AROUND A YEAR OF STRATEGIC BLUNDERS AND DELAYS. LUCENT CEO RICH MCGINN KEPT...
•	  TECH WEEK: WebHouse Tested Limits of Priceline Model 
•	  Marimba shares fall 50 pct after earnings warning. 
•	  WORLD BONDS-After downgrades, telecom uncertainty seen. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Alcoa profit climbs in line with lowered estimates. 
•	  Company Results: PHOTOBITION - Display Graphics And Media Servs Supplier - 
•	  Nasdaq Falls 3.2%, Pulling Market Lower as Profit Worries Prevail 
•	  News Corp Shares Hit By Earnings, Succession Worries 
•	  Stocks fall sharply trading 
•	  Stocks fall sharply trading 
•	  Blue Chips Give Markets a Lift 
•	  UPDATE 2-Omni slumps after Dell warning. 
•	  Omni sags after Dell warning. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Alcoa profit climbs in line with lowered estimates. 
•	  U.S. tech stocks drop on Dell news, broader market flat. 
•	  HOT STOCKS HIGHLIGHTS - Oct. 5. 
•	  Alcoa profit climbs in line with estimates. 
•	 Pitney Bowes shares dive 31 pct after  profit warning .
•	 J.C. Penney Reports  Decline  in Same-Store Sales, Issues  Profit Warning
•	  Philips Semiconductors Bets On Continued Strong Growth 
•	 WSJ.COM WRAP: Penney's Sales Fall; Issues  Profit Warning
•	 Blue chips lead the way as Nasdaq ends losses
•	 Blue-chip stocks rise; tech shares keep falling; Chemical firms, airlines seen as bargains after oil prices drop
•	  FFBN Financials Wrap: Group Weakens On Earnings Outlook 
•	  WORKING HARD, GAINING LITTLE AFTER 6 MONTHS GOING NOWHERE, INVESTORS LOOK FOR MARKETS TO BREAK LOOSE 
•	  Tecnomatix sees 2000 revenues flat on year. 
•	  INTERVIEW-Nabi chief says treatment results misperceived. 
•	  Chicago Tribune Market Report Column 
•	  IN THE MONEY 
•	  Dell Optimistic About 3rd Quarter Outlook 
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  MONEYLINE; CNNfn 
•	  Dow Jones industrial average increases 64.74, closing at 10,784.48 
•	  FFBN Financials Wrap: Group Weakens On Earnings Outlook 
•	  Dow Ends Up 65; Nasdaq Adds 67 
•	  Stock prices close higher, but investor angst persists 
•	  Stock prices close higher, but investor angst persists 
•	  Dow ekes out gain, Nasdaq slides after Fed holds firm. 
•	  US Corp Bonds - Xerox gets few bids after warning. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Toronto stocks shed gains after Fed warning. 
•	  U.S. stocks seen rising at open, Fed meeting looms. 
•	  Xerox CEO: 'Bold' Action Required To Change Bus Model ?
 

 Kingfisher drops as takeover prospects fade. 

286 words
12 October 2000
16:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Oct 12 (Reuters) - Shares in Kingfisher Plc tumbled to more than three-year lows on Thursday as prospects of a bid for the UK retailer faded further after potential U.S. predator Home Depot issued a profit warning, analysts said. 

 Kingfisher stock slid as low as 359 pence, its lowest point since August 1997, before edging back to trade down 32-1/4 pence or 8.2 percent at 362-3/4 pence by 1445 GMT. 

 "What has really hit the share price in the last few days is the realisation that any bid interest is not necessarily immediately around the corner," said one analyst, who asked not to identified. 

 U.S. home-improvement retailer Home Depot had been mooted as a possible bidder for Kingfisher, which owns do-it-yourself chain B&Q, but its profit warning on Thursday seemed to make a move less likely, analysts said. Home Depot stock had plunged 27 percent to $35-7/8 by 1450 GMT after the warning. 

 France's Pinault Printemps-Redoubte, another potential bidder, denied any interest on Tuesday. "We just don't see Kingfisher has being biddable either in its existing form or in its broken up form," said Richard Rater, analyst at Seymour Pierce. 

 Kingfisher plans to demerge into two quoted companies, one combining its DIY and electrical sector stores, and one covering general merchandise. 

 "Retailers are definitely out of favour," Rater added. 

 Further downward pressure on Kingfisher came from its Internet joint venture LibertySurf, whose shares were down about six percent in Paris, analysts said. 

 Kingfisher shares were hit earlier in the week after the company's brokers cut their profit forecasts for the firm. 

Document lba0000020010822dwac04ed9
?
 

 Bausch & Lomb profits edge higher, to  cut  450 jobs. 

265 words
12 October 2000
12:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 12 (Reuters) - Eye care company Bausch & Lomb Inc., which is struggling to regain investor confidence after issuing a profit warning and sacking its president in August, on Thursday reported a slight rise in third-quarter profits and outlined further restructuring and job cuts. 

 The Rochester, N.Y.-based maker of contact lenses, lens-care products and eye-surgery equipment, said it plans to cut about 450 non-manufacturing positions over the next several months, mainly in North America, in order to cut costs by $20 million to $30 million annually. It also warned that continued deterioration of currency rates will pull down fourth-quarter and 2001 earnings. 

 Bausch & Lomb reported income from continuing operations for the third quarter of $37.8 million, or 70 cents a share, excluding certain charges, compared with $37.3 million, or 64 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenues from continuing operations slipped to $440.9 million from $446.3 million. 

 Including unusual items, net earnings were $14.7 million, or 27 cents per share, compared with $231.8 million, or $3.94 per share, in the same period last year. 

 Bausch & Lomb's operating earnings matched Wall Street estimates that were significantly cut after the company on August 24 warned that demand for lens-care products would lead to flat or slightly lower revenue for the rest of the year. Fifteen analysts polled by research firm First Call/Thomson Financial lowered the consensus earnings forecast to 70 cents a share from 93 cents. 

Document lba0000020010822dwac04dxi
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Maytag third-quarter net drops 27 pct, as expected. 

443 words
12 October 2000
14:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEWTON, Iowa, Oct 12 (Reuters) - No. 3 U.S. appliance maker Maytag Corp. on Thursday reported an expected 27 percent decline in third-quarter profits, as results were hit by lost sales from two major customers and increased pricing pressure in a weakening major appliance market. 

 The Newton, Iowa-based maker of refrigerators, dishwashers and Hoover vacuum cleaners reported net income of $59.5 million, or 74 cents per diluted share, compared with $81.8 million, or 92 cents per share, in the same quarter a year ago. The 19.5 percent decline in earnings per share came despite a repurchase programme that cut the number of shares outstanding by 10 percent compared to a year ago. 

 First Call/Thomson Financial said the average analysts' estimate called for a profit of 74 cents. 

 Maytag shares closed on Wednesday at $30-1/8. The stock had rallied to $42-7/16 in August, amid rumours that Maytag could be acquired, but has fallen to near the 52-week low of $25-15/16 since the company issued a profit warning in mid-September. The stock has a 52-week high of $50-3/16. 

 The company last month warned that the bankruptcy of Heilig-Meyers Co. and a decision by Circuit City Stores Inc. to stop selling appliances would cut earnings by 8 to 10 percent from the $1.74 it reported in the second half of 1999. 

 "We regard the loss of sales volume at Circuit City and Heilig-Meyers as being short-term, because our other established retailers are picking up that volume as we move through the fourth quarter and into 2001," Lloyd Ward, chairman and chief executive, said in statement on Thursday. 

 Consolidated sales for the quarter fell slightly to $1.06 billion, down from $1.07 billion in the year-ago quarter. 

 Strong vacuum cleaner sales helped offset weakness in major appliances, leading to a slight rise in sales of home appliances to $931 million in the quarter, up from $924 million a year-ago. But operating profit in the segment fell 9 percent to $120 million. 

 Sales of commercial appliances, including vending machines and commercial kitchen products, fell 13 percent to $105 million in the quarter. Operating income in the segment fell 65 percent to $6 million, hurt by the lower sales and expenses for start-up production of a new rapid-cook commercial oven. 

 The company's joint venture in China had a 20 percent decline in sales to $20 million and an operating loss of $5 million. Maytag owns 50.5 percent of the venture. 

Document lba0000020010822dwac04df1
?
 

 UPDATE 4-Maytag net drops 27 percent. 

 By Brad Dorfman 
667 words
12 October 2000
18:40
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Oct 12 (Reuters) - No. 3 U.S. appliance maker Maytag Corp. on Thursday reported that third-quarter profits declined 27 percent, as expected, after it lost business from two major retailers and struggled with tight pricing in a slumping major appliance market. 

 The Newton, Iowa-based maker of refrigerators, dishwashers and Hoover vacuum cleaners reported net income of $59.5 million, or 74 cents per diluted share, compared with $81.8 million, or 92 cents, in the same quarter a year ago. Earnings matched the consensus analysts' estimate, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Consolidated sales fell slightly to $1.06 billion from $1.07 billion in the year-ago quarter. 

 A lower tax rate of 33.3 percent - down from 36.4 percent a year ago - helped the company meet lowered earnings expectations. 

 "The tax rate was the reason they made the quarter, in my mind," said Larry Horan, analyst at regional brokerage firm Parker/Hunter. 

 Maytag shares were down 11/16, or 2.28 percent, at $30-1/8 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock rallied to $42-7/16 in August amid rumours Maytag might be acquired, but fell near the 52-week low of $25-15/16 after the company issued a profit warning in mid-September. The stock has a 52-week high of $50-3/16. 

 Many of the factors that hurt third quarter earnings will continue in the fourth quarter, Lloyd Ward, chairman and chief executive, said. 

 "We see no letup in the competitive intensity in the industry, in pricing pressures or in the overall softness around the economy," Ward said. 

 Looking further ahead, Ward said that the consensus analysts estimate for all of 2001 compiled by market research firm First Call/Thomson Financial was in line with current Maytag expectations. That estimate calls for earnings of $3.68 a share, up from an estimate of $3.35 in 2000 and near flat compared to the $3.66 reported in 1999. 

 Earnings per share fell 19.5 percent despite a stock repurchase programme that cut the number of outstanding shares by 10 percent compared to a year ago. 

 Last month, Maytag warned that earnings would be 8 to 10 percent below earnings of $1.74 per share in the second half of 1999 because of the bankruptcy of furnishings retailer Heilig-Meyers Co. and a decision by Circuit City Stores Inc. to stop selling appliances. 

 "We regard the loss of sales volume at Circuit City and Heilig-Meyers as being short term, because our other established retailers are picking up that volume as we move through the fourth quarter and into 2001," Ward said in statement Thursday. 

 Strong vacuum cleaner sales helped offset weakness in major appliances. Sales of home appliances rose to $931 million in the quarter from $924 million a year ago. But operating profit in the segment fell 9 percent to $120 million. 

 Maytag, like other appliance makers, is trying to manage rapid change in the retail appliance market. As some major retailers exit the scene, others like discounter Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and home improvement giant Home Depot Inc. are now selling appliances. At the same time, more consumers are shopping for appliances on the Internet. 

 "If you step back and look at what's going on here, there is just massive change going on in the marketplace today," Nicholas Heymann, appliance industry analyst at Prudential Securities, said. 

 Sales of commercial appliances, including vending machines and commercial kitchen products, fell 13 percent to $105 million in the quarter. Operating income in the segment fell 65 percent to $6 million, hurt by lower sales and expenses for start-up production of a new rapid-cook commercial oven and lower vending equipment sales. 

 Sales in its joint venture in China fell 20 percent to $20 million and had an operating loss of $5 million. Maytag owns 50.5 percent of the venture. 

Document lba0000020010822dwac04855
?
 

 UPDATE 3-Bausch & Lomb profits up, to  cut  450 jobs. 

 By Edward Tobin 
711 words
12 October 2000
18:17
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 12 (Reuters) - Bausch & Lomb Inc., struggling to regain investor confidence after warning on profits and firing its president, on Thursday posted a slight rise in third-quarter operating earnings, cautioned about future results and said it would cut it work force by 4 percent. 

 The Rochester, N.Y.-based maker of contact lenses, lens-care products and eye-surgery equipment said it plans to cut about 450 non-manufacturing positions over the next several months. The cuts, mainly in North America, will help reduce costs by $20 million to $30 million annually but will mean a fourth-quarter charge of $30 million to $35 million, it said. 

 Bausch & Lomb also said continued deterioration of currency rates will hurt fourth-quarter and 2001 earnings. 

 "This news means there is clearly more work ahead for Bausch & Lomb," said industry analyst David Gruber of Lehman Brothers. "Contact lenses is the bright spot on the quarter, but the concern lies more with higher-margin lens care solutions and pharmaceuticals." 

 "It's a company with problems, and we still need additional clarity in terms of where it's going on these restructuring activities," said Gruber. 

 Bausch & Lomb reported third-quarter income from continuing operations of $37.8 million, or 70 cents a share, excluding certain charges, compared with $37.3 million, or 64 cents a share, a year earlier. Operating revenues fell to $440.9 million from $446.3 million. 

 Including special items in both years, net earnings were $14.7 million, or 27 cents per share, compared with $231.8 million, or $3.94 per share, a year earlier. 

 The 147-year-old company's operating earnings matched Wall Street estimates. On Aug. 24 Bausch & Lomb warned that demand for lens-care products would lead to flat or slightly lower revenue for the rest of the year. The warning prompted analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial to cut their consensus earnings forecast to 70 cents a share from 93 cents. 

 Bausch & Lomb shares have failed to rebound after losing more than a third of their value on the late-summer profit warning and the firing of President and Chief Operating Officer Carl Sassano. The shares were off $2-1/16 to $37 at midday on the New York Stock Exchange, near their 52-week low of $33-9/16. The 52-week high is $80-7/8. 

 "The stock is down (today) because investors were hoping the job cuts would spell cost savings that would translate into better earnings," instead of going toward more research and development, analyst Suey Wong of Robert W. Baird & Co. said. 

 William Carpenter, Bausch & Lomb's chairman and chief executive officer, said in a statement, "We will reinvest the savings generated by the restructuring actions to accelerate the longer-term growth of the company." 

 A 2 percent fall in the company's vision care sales and an 8 percent drop in revenue at the pharmaceuticals business slowed Bausch & Lomb's third-quarter profits. The surgical segment saw a 4 percent rise in sales. Combined lens care and vision accessories revenues were down 8 percent. 

 Carpenter said, "Revenues were somewhat lower than our expectations as a result of further deterioration in currency rates since August and the timing of laser installations." 

 He said increased spending on the company's Envision TD product, a treatment for retinal and other diseases of the back of the eye, and currency issues would reduce fourth-quarter results "between 8 and 10 cents per share from current consensus estimates." 

 The company said currency issued would cut 2001 earnings by 14 to 16 cents per share. 

 Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial expect the eye care company to post fourth-quarter earnings of 83 cents per share and 2001 earnings of $2.86. 

 Carpenter called Envision TD "the No. 1 development priority of the company" and said he was willing to "sacrifice short-term earnings in order to accelerate its longer-term potential." 

 ING Barings analyst Joanne Wuensch said early clinical data for the product showed promising results and predicted that Envision TD could be a "multibillion-dollar" treatment. 

Document lba0000020010822dwac0484u
?
 

 UPDATE 5-Maytag net drops 27 percent. 

 By Brad Dorfman 
672 words
12 October 2000
22:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Oct 12 (Reuters) - Third largest U.S. appliance maker Maytag Corp. on Thursday reported that third-quarter profits declined 27 percent, as expected, after it lost business from two major retailers and struggled with tight pricing in a slumping major appliance market. 

 The Newton, Iowa-based maker of refrigerators, dishwashers and Hoover vacuum cleaners reported net income of $59.5 million, or 74 cents per diluted share, compared with $81.8 million, or 92 cents, in the same quarter a year ago. Earnings matched the consensus analysts' estimate, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Consolidated sales fell slightly to $1.06 billion from $1.07 billion in the year-ago quarter. 

 A lower tax rate of 33.3 percent - down from 36.4 percent a year ago - helped the company meet lowered earnings expectations. 

 "The tax rate was the reason they made the quarter, in my mind," said Larry Horan, analyst at regional brokerage firm Parker/Hunter. 

 Maytag shares closed down $2-3/8, or 7.88 percent, at $27-3/4 on the New York Stock Exchange, amid a broader market sell-off. The stock had rallied to $42-7/16 in August amid rumours Maytag might be acquired, but fell near the 52-week low of $25-15/16 after the company issued a profit warning in mid-September. The stock has a 52-week high of $50-3/16. 

 Many of the factors that hurt third quarter earnings will continue in the fourth quarter, Lloyd Ward, chairman and chief executive, said. 

 "We see no letup in the competitive intensity in the industry, in pricing pressures or in the overall softness around the economy," Ward said. 

 Looking further ahead, Ward said that the consensus analysts estimate for all of 2001 compiled by market research firm First Call/Thomson Financial was in line with current Maytag expectations. That estimate calls for earnings of $3.68 a share, up from an estimate of $3.35 in 2000 and near flat compared to the $3.66 reported in 1999. 

 Earnings per share fell 19.5 percent despite a stock repurchase programme that cut the number of outstanding shares by 10 percent compared to a year ago. 

 Last month, Maytag warned that earnings would be 8 to 10 percent below earnings of $1.74 per share in the second half of 1999 because of the bankruptcy of furnishings retailer Heilig-Meyers Co. and a decision by Circuit City Stores Inc. to stop selling appliances. 

 "We regard the loss of sales volume at Circuit City and Heilig-Meyers as being short term, because our other established retailers are picking up that volume as we move through the fourth quarter and into 2001," Ward said in statement Thursday. 

 Strong vacuum cleaner sales helped offset weakness in major appliances. Sales of home appliances rose to $931 million in the quarter from $924 million a year ago. But operating profit in the segment fell 9 percent to $120 million. 

 Maytag, like other appliance makers, is trying to manage rapid change in the retail appliance market. As some major retailers exit the scene, others like discounter Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and home improvement giant Home Depot Inc. are now selling appliances. At the same time, more consumers are shopping for appliances on the Internet. 

 "If you step back and look at what's going on here, there is just massive change going on in the marketplace today," Nicholas Heymann, appliance industry analyst at Prudential Securities, said. 

 Sales of commercial appliances, including vending machines and commercial kitchen products, fell 13 percent to $105 million in the quarter. Operating income in the segment fell 65 percent to $6 million, hurt by lower sales and expenses for start-up production of a new rapid-cook commercial oven and lower vending equipment sales. 

 Sales in its joint venture in China fell 20 percent to $20 million and had an operating loss of $5 million. Maytag owns 50.5 percent of the venture. 

Document lba0000020010822dwac0480r
?
 

 UPDATE 3-Home Depot shares skid after  profit warning . 

817 words
12 October 2000
21:52
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (adds closing stock prices in paragraphs 2-3, growth rate 

 targets in paragraphs 9-10) 

 By Paul Simao 

 ATLANTA, Oct 12 (Reuters) - U.S. home improvement retail giant Home Depot Inc. said on Thursday it would miss its earnings targets in the third quarter and 2000 because of a drop in what it charged for lumber and building materials, prompting the company's shares to fall more than 28 percent. 

 Atlanta-based Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement retailer and a key component of the Dow Jones Industrial average, fell $14-1/16 to close at $34-7/8, just above the new 52-week-low of $34-11/16, set earlier Thursday in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The Dow dropped 3.6 percent, or 379.21 points, to close at 10,034.58, and retailing stocks sagged as panicky investors fled the sector. North Carolina-based Lowe's Cos. Inc., Home Depot's main rival, lost $3-2/16 to close at $37-15/16 a share on the NYSE. 

 Analysts said Home Depot, like most retailers in the United States, had been hurt by an economic slowdown linked to rising interest rates. The U.S. Federal Reserve hiked rates six times between June 1999 and May of this year. 

 "This is exactly what the Fed hoped for. They wanted to slow consumer spending," said Kenneth Gassman, analyst with Davenport & Co., who added that the fourth quarter would likely be a tough period for retailers. 

 Home Depot, which operates 1,052 stores in the United States, Canada and South America, said it expected to earn 28 cents a share in the third quarter, a 12-percent increase from the same period in 1999 and $1.16 or $1.17 a share in 2000 compared to $1 last year. 

 The company is expected to report third-quarter results on Nov. 14. 

 Before the profit warning, Wall Street analysts had on average expected Home Depot to earn 31 cents a share in the third quarter and $1.25 for the full year, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks consensus data. 

 In recent years, Home Depot has posted earnings per share (EPS) growth rates above the 30 percent level, outstripping its targets. On Thursday, the company conceded it would fall well short of its target of 23-25 percent EPS growth for 2000. But it added it remained committed to reaching that target in 2001. 

 Home Depot said comparable sales gains (comps), a key measure of financial health in the retail sector, were expected to dip by about two percentage points to 4 percent in the third quarter from an earlier forecast of 5 to 7 percent growth. 

 LOW LUMBER PRICES HIT 

 Home Depot laid the blame for its profit warning on the unexpectedly slower sales that had resulted from falling lumber and building materials retail prices. Lumber prices recently fell to five-year lows due to slow demand and an output glut. 

 Falling lumber supply costs would usually benefit home improvement retailers, but lower sticker prices on items such as plywood and two-by-fours, when combined with a slowdown in customer volume, cut into gross sales and make it more difficult to meet fixed expenses. 

 Analysts also said Home Depot appeared to have been caught buying some lumber supplies on contract at fixed rates before the recent price drops. 

 Home Depot said its third-quarter comps also suffered in comparison to 1999 because results from last year had been inflated by spending on hurricane repairs and purchasing ahead of the projected Year 2000 computer glitch. 

 It noted that fourth-quarter sales would be hurt by many of the same factors that affected sales in the third quarter. 

 Home Depot Chief Executive Officer Arthur Blank denied the company was headed for hard times. He said the outlook for the home improvement retail business remained strong despite the problems caused by lumber and building materials deflation. 

 In a conference call with analysts on Thursday, Blank said that many of the company's current difficulties "were very unique to the pricing situation in lumber and building materials." 

 "This is not a bad economy. We don't see it that way and we don't see it becoming a bad economy. It's certainly a little bit softer in the last couple of months than it has been in the past," Blank said. 

 But some analysts expressed concerns that the company's spending on new initiatives, such as its expansion into international markets, might act as a drag on growth if consumer spending remained soft. 

 "The challenge they face is that they may get larger and larger and stay at a certain rate of growth," said Mark Mandel, analyst with U.S. brokerage Robinson-Humphrey, who maintained an "outperform" rating on Home Depot. 

Document lba0000020010822dwac04804
?
 

 UPDATE 3-Maytag net drops 27 percent. 

 By Brad Dorfman 
588 words
12 October 2000
17:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Adds company comments, updates stock price, grphs 6-9. PVS, NEWTON, Iowa) 

 CHICAGO, Oct 12 (Reuters) - No. 3 U.S. appliance maker Maytag Corp. on Thursday reported that third-quarter profits declined 27 percent, as expected, after it lost business from two major retailers and struggled with tight pricing in a slumping major appliance market. 

 The Newton, Iowa-based maker of refrigerators, dishwashers and Hoover vacuum cleaners reported net income of $59.5 million, or 74 cents per diluted share, compared with $81.8 million, or 92 cents, in the same quarter a year ago. Earnings matched the consensus analysts' estimate, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Consolidated sales fell slightly to $1.06 billion from $1.07 billion in the year-ago quarter. 

 A lower tax rate of 33.3 percent - down from 36.4 percent a year ago - helped the company meet lowered earnings expectations. 

 "The tax rate was the reason they made the quarter, in my mind," said Larry Horan, analyst at regional brokerage firm Parker/Hunter. 

 Maytag shares were unchanged at $30-1/8 in late morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock rallied to $42-7/16 in August amid rumours Maytag might be acquired, but fell near the 52-week low of $25-15/16 after the company issued a profit warning in mid-September. The stock has a 52-week high of $50-3/16. 

 Many of the factors that hurt third quarter earnings will continue in the fourth quarter, Lloyd Ward, chairman and chief executive, said. 

 "We see no letup in the competitive intensity in the industry, in pricing pressures or in the overall softness around the economy," Ward said. 

 Looking further ahead, Ward said that the consensus analysts estimate for all of 2001 compiled by market research firm First Call/Thomson Financial was in line with current Maytag expectations. That estimate calls for earnings of $3.68 a share, up from an estimate of $3.35 in 2000 and near flat compared to the $3.66 reported in 1999. 

 Earnings per share fell 19.5 percent despite a stock repurchase programme that cut the number of outstanding shares by 10 percent compared to a year ago. 

 Last month, Maytag warned that earnings would be 8 to 10 percent below earnings of $1.74 per share in the second half of 1999 because of the bankruptcy of furnishings retailer Heilig-Meyers Co. and a decision by Circuit City Stores Inc. to stop selling appliances. 

 "We regard the loss of sales volume at Circuit City and Heilig-Meyers as being short term, because our other established retailers are picking up that volume as we move through the fourth quarter and into 2001," Ward said in statement Thursday. 

 Strong vacuum cleaner sales helped offset weakness in major appliances. Sales of home appliances rose to $931 million in the quarter from $924 million a year ago. But operating profit in the segment fell 9 percent to $120 million. 

 Sales of commercial appliances, including vending machines and commercial kitchen products, fell 13 percent to $105 million in the quarter. Operating income in the segment fell 65 percent to $6 million, hurt by lower sales and expenses for start-up production of a new rapid-cook commercial oven and lower vending equipment sales. 

 Sales in its joint venture in China fell 20 percent to $20 million and had an operating loss of $5 million. Maytag owns 50.5 percent of the venture. 

Document lba0000020010822dwac047xp
?
 

 UPDATE 2-Maytag net drops 27 percent. 

 By Brad Dorfman 
468 words
12 October 2000
15:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEWTON, Iowa, Oct 12 (Reuters) - No. 3 U.S. appliance maker Maytag Corp. on Thursday reported that third-quarter profits declined 27 percent, as expected, after it lost business from two major retailers and struggled with tight pricing in a slumping major appliance market. 

 The Newton, Iowa-based maker of refrigerators, dishwashers and Hoover vacuum cleaners reported net income of $59.5 million, or 74 cents per diluted share, compared with $81.8 million, or 92 cents, in the same quarter a year ago. Earnings matched the consensus analysts' estimate, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Consolidated sales fell slightly to $1.06 billion from $1.07 billion in the year-ago quarter. 

 A lower tax rate of 33.3 percent - down from 36.4 percent a year ago - helped the company meet lowered earnings expectations. 

 "The tax rate was the reason they made the quarter, in my mind," said Larry Horan, analyst at regional brokerage firm Parker/Hunter. 

 Maytag shares fell 1/2 at $29-5/8 on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock rallied to $42-7/16 in August amid rumours Maytag might be acquired, but fell near the 52-week low of $25-15/16 after the company issued a profit warning in mid-September. The stock has a 52-week high of $50-3/16. 

 Earnings per share fell 19.5 percent despite a stock repurchase programme that cut the number of outstanding shares by 10 percent compared to a year ago. 

 Last month, Maytag warned that earnings would be 8 to 10 percent below earnings of $1.74 per share in the second half of 1999 because of the bankruptcy of furnishings retailer Heilig-Meyers Co. and a decision by Circuit City Stores Inc. to stop selling appliances. 

 "We regard the loss of sales volume at Circuit City and Heilig-Meyers as being short term, because our other established retailers are picking up that volume as we move through the fourth quarter and into 2001," Lloyd Ward, chairman and chief executive, said in statement Thursday. 

 Strong vacuum cleaner sales helped offset weakness in major appliances. Sales of home appliances rose to $931 million in the quarter from $924 million a year-ago. But operating profit in the segment fell 9 percent to $120 million. 

 Sales of commercial appliances, including vending machines and commercial kitchen products, fell 13 percent to $105 million in the quarter. Operating income in the segment fell 65 percent to $6 million, hurt by lower sales and expenses for start-up production of a new rapid-cook commercial oven. 

 Sales in its joint venture in China fell 20 percent to $20 million and had an operating loss of $5 million. Maytag owns 50.5 percent of the venture. 

Document lba0000020010822dwac047cn
?
 U.S.  Profit Warning  Trips London Stock Market 

737 words
12 October 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Daily Mail - London
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Nasty Nasdaq brought the London stock market to its knees again. Down 115 points overnight, it plummeted 137 more at one stage following a shock profits warning from US telecoms supplier Lucent. Its UK equivalent techMARK 100 nosedived another 178 points in sympathy and after that there was only one way for the Footsie to go. It dropped 149.6 before closing 130.1 points down at 6117.6. 

 Superstitious bears roared that there is more grief to come. Tomorrow is Friday the 13th and next Thursday sees the 13th anniversary of the 1987 market crash. They know that if the present trend continues, Sunday's City columns will be full of yet more gloomy predictions about further heavy falls. It happens every year. 

 While bulls appreciate that there is increasing global nervousness about fading growth and disintegrating profits, particularly in the US -- where Wall Street fell 173 points early on, before bouncing --they are relatively relaxed. 

 They expect markets to be twitchy at this time of year and are keeping a low profile. They say the market is oversold and are ready to buy in a big way should the Footsie drop to, or below, 6000. 

 Telecoms equipment groups were demoralised by Lucent's warning. Bookham Technology plummeted 404 pence to 2460 pence and Marconi 57 pence to 839 pence. Other notable Footsie tech casualties included Logica 167 pence off at 1980 pence, Baltimore 48 pence at 561 pence, Sema 68 pence at 1102 pence, and Spirent 31 pence at 647 pence. 

 Among the biggest FTSE 250 fallers were Telework which fell 47 1/2 pence to 270 pence, Guardian IT 172 1/2 pence to 987 1/2 pence, Geo International 167 1/2 pence to 1112 1/2 pence and Staffware 225 pence to 2512 1/2 pence. 

 Mobile phone giant Vodafone's 14 1/2 pence drop to 234 1/2 pence accounted for more than 43 points of the Footsie's fall. Cable & Wireless lost 46 pence to 864 pence and British Telecom 31 pence to 696 1/2 pence. 

 Bright spots were generally confined to perceived defensive stocks. Tobacco giant Imperial gained 23 1/2 pence to 663 1/2 pence, while BOC firmed 27 1/2 pence to 887 1/2 pence and Cadbury Schweppes 10 pence to 429 pence. 

 Banks remained friendless on competition worries. Halifax, which put the cat among the pigeons with new low-interest credit cards and a current account offering 4 percent interest against 0.1 percent from other big banks, lost 25 1/2 pence to 500 pence, for a two-day decline of 47 pence. 

 Royal Bank of Scotland, which owns NatWest, fell 41 pence further to 1299 pence -- a two-day drop of 159 pence. Looks overdone to me. 

 Reflecting their "safe haven" status and a firmer crude price, oils gushed. Crude rose to $32.60 a barrel after US heating oil stocks fell unexpectedly, renewing concern about a winter shortage. Shell advanced 16 pence to 597 1/2 pence and BP Amoco 1 1/2 pence following news that Fidelity International has 4.3 percent. 

 Powderject, which develops needle-free powder injection of drugs, soared 66 1/2 pence to 729 pence. Buyers appeared after it renegotiated its agreement on the manufacture of Aviron's intranasal flu vaccine, FluMist. Aviron will now make $15 million initial payments to Powderject, with a further $4 million per annum for five years. 

 Rumours that a tasty deal is in the oven at cooker group Stoves lifted the shares 5 1/2 pence to 35 1/2 pence. Silverslaggan AB, a Swedish company owned by Per Gyllenhammar, and his own family interests hold a combined 16.5 percent. Interim profits fell sharply from UKpound 865,000 to UKpound 55,000. It blamed cheap imports. 

 Household goods group Cornwell Parker edged up 1/2 pence to 45 pence on talk of an imminent bid from bed company Silent-night, 3 1/2 pence cheaper at 174 pence. 

 The dropping of plans to take the company private through a management buyout left control systems group Roxspur 12 pence down at 22 1/2 pence, after 19 pence. 

 Knowledge exchange systems specialist Orbital Software Systems performed well on its debut. Placed at 145 pence by broker Beeson Gregory, it touched 170 pence before closing at 160 1/2 pence. 

Document krtbn00020010807dwac01x2n
?
 

 Alaska Air Says Profit Won't Meet Forecasts; Shares  Decline  by 14% 

328 words
12 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
B12
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 SEATTLE -- Alaska Air Group Inc., blaming factors from reduced capacity to higher taxes, said it doesn't expect its third-quarter profit to meet analysts' estimates or year-earlier results. 

 The parent of Alaska Airlines, the nation's 10th-largest carrier, said it expects to report a profit of 50 cents to 70 cents a diluted share, well below the $1.26 a share expected by analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. In the year-earlier third quarter, the carrier earned $54.9 million, or $2.07 a share, on revenue of $589.1 million. 

 The company has been plagued by questions about its safety since the Jan. 31 crash of its Flight 261, which killed all 88 aboard when an MD-80 jet plunged into the Pacific Ocean off Los Angeles. The accident investigation hasn't concluded. Meanwhile, the Federal Aviation Administration has found fault with Alaska Air's maintenance procedures, staffing, training and corporate culture. The company also is the subject of a federal grand-jury investigation into allegedly falsified maintenance paperwork. 

 As it has taken steps to regain its image with customers and improve its operations, the carrier has throttled back its rapid growth. One reason it cited for its profit warning was a 3.2% decline in Alaska Air's capacity in the quarter. Capacity also declined in the second quarter and the carrier expects to expand less than 2% in the fourth quarter. Alaska Air typically expands about 10% a year, a figure it said it should achieve next year. 

 On top of shrinking capacity, the company blamed high fuel expenses, rising labor and maintenance costs and changes in accounting for its frequent-flier program for its damped earnings outlook. Finally, an income tax rate of about 60%, compared with 40% a year ago, is expected to shave 25 cents to 30 cents a share off its third-quarter profit. 

Document j000000020010807dwac00qpn
?
 

 Perot Can't  Cut  His Old Company Down to Size 

 By Gerald Posner 
1,262 words
12 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A26
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 In the spring of 1996, my wife Trisha and I spent a week at Electronic Data Systems' sprawling and ultra-modern headquarters 20 minutes outside Dallas. We were researching a biography on the company's enigmatic founder, Ross Perot, who was then secretly preparing for his last presidential run. Although a heat wave gripped the area and temperatures soared past 100 before noon, when we arrived at EDS we were surprised to find the buildings remarkably chilly. My wife, who wore only a light summer dress, was almost shivering. She asked one executive why the place was kept so cold. "Oh, that's so we don't ever have to take off our jackets," he said without missing a beat. 

 That was the type of place Mr. Perot had created when he founded EDS in 1962, a computer-services company that was crafted to be more IBM than IBM itself. Mr. Perot relished the hierarchical corporate structure and the firm's conservative culture. Visitors often commented on the clean-shaven men with army haircuts in dark suits, white shirts, spit-shined shoes, all walking the buildings in double-gait time. Filled with Vietnam veterans, and with much of its business dependent on public contracts, Mr. Perot built a conglomerate that worked well with his top-down management style. 

 But the problem for EDS was that it was so identified with Mr. Perot and his authoritarian approach that when he left in a huff over a fight with then-owners General Motors, the company lost its spark. By the time it again became independent -- after GM spun it off in 1996 -- it seemed complacent with its prestigious roster of Fortune 500 customers and never showed much interest in the exploding market for Internet and electronic commerce. 

 Without Mr. Perot prodding them, the executives who had trained under him seemed distant and sometimes aimless, building large stables of perks (there were 14 corporate jets at one point), while becoming careless with the enormous business it had inherited from GM (nearly one-fifth of the company's revenues). Its share price languished. EDS's woes allowed competitors -- especially IBM's Global Services -- to jump far ahead. 

 Then about 18 months ago a new chief executive, Richard Brown, formerly of Britain's Cable & Wireless, quietly became the first non-Perot acolyte to take helm of the firm that practically invented the computer-services business. Mr. Brown had hardly known of the company just a year before he took charge. But he was a quick study and soon realized that what EDS needed was an entirely new business focus and a cleansing of the restricted practices and bureaucracy that were left over from Mr. Perot. He was startled to discover that it had only been in the mid-1990s that rules such as white shirts only, no beards for men, and no trousers for women, had been revised. Mr. Brown decided to push the company -- not nudge it -- into the future, and as an outsider he felt free to alter the otherwise sacrosanct culture. 

 Last week's announcement that EDS landed a stunning Navy/Marine contract worth at least $7 billion (possibly $10 billion with options) is solid evidence the company may finally be on the road to revitalization. EDS beat out both IBM and Computer Sciences for the deal, and investors evidently felt it marked a turning point. The day after the deal was announced, they pushed up EDS's stock by nearly 15% while correspondingly slicing 10% off the value of Computer Sciences. 

 The problem Mr. Brown faced in converting a mainframe company into an Internet-focused one was not insignificant. Although revenues had grown steadily in the 1990s, the number of employees and overhead had ballooned and margins had dropped. Because of its staid reputation, EDS wasn't attracting the kind of workers needed to retool and launch new initiatives. 

 Mr. Brown quickly made his mark, slashing $1 billion in costs and almost 10,000 jobs, many of them workers with outdated technology skills (the process was dubbed "Brownsizing" inside EDS). He also completely reorganized the company, creating a new 20,000-strong division called "e.solutions" responsible for winning Internet and new-economy business. Mr. Brown's touch was even evident on this year's EDS Super Bowl ads, where the once-stuffy company compared information-technology services to herding cats. Mr. Perot would not only have refused to spend so much money on a single ad, he would have thought it plain silly. Mr. Brown realizes, however, that shaking EDS's old-fashioned image requires taking a few gambles. 

 He has also streamlined the company's decision-making process, so that it is more agile when taking on nimble competitors like Scient or Razor Fish. The Internet and electronic businesses now report directly to him. And Mr. Brown has successfully exploited EDS's strength in financial institutions to work the company into new Web-based applications on existing ATM networks. 

 Meantime, Mr. Brown has not forgotten the core business, which is still about conventional hardware information services. Although GM now competitively bids out its contracts, EDS has managed to win back 90% of them; it also continues to build against more traditional competitors. 

 One particular competitor that EDS relishes beating is Perot Systems, founded by Mr. Perot and run initially by Mort Meyerson, Mr. Perot's right-hand man in EDS's heyday. When I interviewed Mr. Perot in 1996, he was confident that he would beat EDS into oblivion. "It is twenty-five times as big as EDS was when EDS was seven years old," he bragged about his new company. He boldly predicted that by 2000, Perot Systems would be the same size as EDS was when he sold it to GM ($2.5 billion). He regaled me with stories about how he and Mr. Meyerson understood the marketplace like no one else, and how they would soon pick apart the slow-moving behemoth they had abandoned. 

 Yet time has not been kind to Mr. Perot and his predictions. Although Perot Systems was a star initial public offering in December 1999, jumping from the offering price of $14 a share to nearly $90 on the first day of trading, reality has since set in. A profit warning in June, Mr. Perot's transfer of reins to his son, Ross Jr., and the disclosure that a single client, Switzerland's UBS, provides 30% of its revenue, has not helped. This week the stock traded at $9 a share, near it's all-time low. The company is valued at less than half what Perot had predicted to me four years ago. 

 "Ross didn't understand the Internet," says a former colleague and EDS executive. "He thought he could do the same old thing at Perot Systems that he had done in the 1960s and 1970s with us. But the market has changed dramatically. We've learned that the hard way. He's too stubborn. But boy, I'm glad he is, because it feels great to beat him at his own game." 

 Beating Mr. Perot may make some old-time EDS employees feel good, but turning the company back into the No. 1 information-services outfit in the world is what will make Mr. Brown and investors happy. If last week's Navy contract is any indication, the company is on the right path. 

 --- 

 Mr. Posner is author of seven books, including "Citizen Perot" (Random House, 1996). 

Document j000000020010807dwac00qpm
?
 

 Marketing & Media 
 Nordstrom Says Quarterly Loss Is Possible 

 By Jonathan Eig 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
483 words
12 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
B16
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Nordstrom Inc., hit by weak sales and a number of one-time charges, said it expects to break even or post a slight loss for fiscal third quarter, widely missing analysts' expectations. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected the company to post net income of 24 cents a diluted share for the quarter ending Oct. 31. The Seattle retail-clothing chain's announcement marks the second straight quarter it has issued a profit warning. 

 Company President Blake Nordstrom said that the company is "focusing on strong execution during the upcoming holiday season." But some retail analysts said Nordstrom is unlikely to shake its sluggish performance so quickly. 

 Most major retailers have endured difficult times this year. But Nordstrom has suffered more than many of them, in part because of poor results on clearance sales. Also, Nordstrom has struggled though an identity crisis, attempting at times to change its conservative image to attract younger shoppers. Its chairman and chief executive, John Whitacre, was replaced in late August by Mr. Nordstrom. 

 "They have not articulated what's next and how they plan to reshape themselves," said Michael Exstein, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. "I certainly am taking a very cautious stance for the fourth quarter. There's a tremendous amount of uncertainty hanging on the company concerning strategy and leadership." 

 At 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Nordstrom's shares fell $1.06, or 6.8%, to $14.63 each. That is near their 52-week low of $14 on Aug. 31 and sharply off their April 12 high of $34.50. 

 For the current quarter, Nordstrom said general expenses, markdowns and disappointing sales would cut operating results by four cents to seven cents a share. It also said it would take charges of between $41 million and $43 million, or 19 cents to 20 cents a share, for the period. The charges -- more than $30 million of which are for noncash items -- include an impairment charge of between $18 million and $20 million related to the decreased value of the company's investment in Streamline.com Inc. and an estimated $13 million of severance costs connected to senior-management restructuring. 

 For the year-ago third quarter, Nordstrom earned $45.4 million, or 35 cents a diluted share, on sales of $1.45 billion. 

 Laura Richardson, an analyst and vice president at Pacific Crest Securities, said Nordstrom's sales figures for September were slightly better than she had expected, but nevertheless it will take more time before the retailer's new management team proves itself. 

 "They're a good company, and they have a great brand," Ms. Richardson said. "But stocks are valued based on the results delivered. I think they need to deliver more consistent results." 

Document j000000020010807dwac00qi8
?
 

 European Corporate Bonds Dented By Equities Tailspin 

 By Claudia Barrios Semerci 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
526 words
12 October 2000
09:34
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)- European corporate bonds are seeing wider moves in their yield spreads as the global, Nasdaq-led plunge in equity prices filters into credit markets. 

 "Equity market volatility remains the most important driver of credit markets at the moment," says Gary Jenkins, head of European credit research at Barclays Capital. 

 Wednesday, the Nasdaq composite sank more than 2.2% to 3168.49 following a profit warning from Lucent Technologies Inc. (LU) late Tuesday. 

 Weak equity markets have weighed down the corporate debt market for some time, but a recent rash of profit and revenue warnings from U.S. companies has prompted investors to accelerate their retreat from stocks and underlying debt instruments. 

 "The best example of this is the reaction seen in the bond market following Xerox's warnings over third quarter earnings. Its bonds didn't react following an earlier downgrade by both agencies, yet widened up to 115 basis points following the profit warnings,." said Barclays Capital's Jenkins. 

 On Sept. 27, Moody's Investor Services and Standard & Poor's both downgraded Xerox (T.XER) from A3/A- to Baa2/BBB respectively. Then on Oct. 2, Xerox announced it expected to post a loss of 15 to 20 cents a share for the third quarter, reversing an earlier prediction for a moderate profit. The stock price dropped 26% last week and its Eurobonds remain 250 basis points wider since early September. 

 Credit spread widening is a reflection of investors jumping into government bonds at the expense of equities and corporate debt. 

 "People are buying safer assets but not in huge amounts yet," says a European credit strategist at a U.S. bank. "This will increase if equity markets remain nervous. The European telecom and auto sector are suffering in particular from wider bond spreads, though overall trading volume is muted at the moment." 

 According to monthly figures compiled by Chase Manhattan Bank, benchmark size bonds from triple and double A rated European credits have seen yield spreads trade flat to one basis point wider over governments, compared to a 23 basis point move by triple B credits. The European telecom sector on its own has widened 20 basis points. 

 The moves in the triple B market segment have been led by specific bonds, such as Tecnost and Clear Channel. 

 "The equity market is violent in its reaction to profit warnings but at the moment it is still a very credit specific move," adds Barclays's Jenkins. 

 In the short-term, analysts expect a flight to quality to continue, with investors avoiding event risk by focusing on defensive floating rate note product and triple A names in the front-end of the curve. 


Bonds from supranational, sovereign and agency names have dominated
primary market activity in the last few sessions. Further
euro-denominated issuance from the European Investment Bank and Freddie
Mac (FRE) is set to appeal to a more cautious investor going forward.
-By Claudia Barrios Semerci, Dow Jones Newswires;
+44-20-7842-9318; claudia.barrios@dowjones.com
-0- 12/10/00 08-34G


Document dji0000020010805dwac04vx4
?
 

BUSINESS
LUCENT CEO UNDER PRESSURE

Bloomberg News   
483 words
12 October 2000
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
2D
English
Copyright 2000 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

Lucent Technologies Inc. Chief Executive Rich McGinn is under pressure from investors to reverse a profit slide at the biggest maker of phone equipment, or give up the company's helm.

"He's got a short rope," said managing director John Waterman of Rittenhouse Financial Services Inc., which held 7.64 million shares of Lucent on June 30. "The pressure's only going to grow."

In its third disappointment this year, Lucent late Tuesday said earnings per share fell in the fourth quarter that ended Sept. 30. That missed a target it reduced 13 weeks ago. With its stock down 70 percent this year, Lucent has lost $151.3 billion of market value.

Lucent shares fell 32.2 percent Wednesday, down $10.13 to $21.25.

McGinn, 54, told Lucent's top 400 executives on a conference call Wednesday that he has no plans to resign, spokesman Bill Price said. As recently as six weeks ago - after reducing profit forecasts for the second time a month earlier - the chief executive said he had full support of the company's board.

Ken Turek, a portfolio manager at Northern Trust Corp., said he won't buy Lucent stock as long as McGinn is CEO. Although he had sold Lucent from the funds he manages earlier this year, Northern still held 21.2 million shares on June 30.

McGinn, who started his career at Illinois Bell in 1969 and rose through AT&T to become executive vice president, was named Lucent CEO in October 1997 and chairman in January 1998, replacing Henry Schacht in both cases.

In his first year as chief executive, sales rose 13 percent. They jumped 21 percent the next and 20 percent in fiscal 1999, a year in which net income rose to a record $3.83 billion from $2.62 billion.

Tuesday, the company said fiscal 2000 sales rose about 14 percent and earnings per share from operations fell 10 percent to 11 percent, excluding acquisitions costs.

In the recent quarter, sales of fiber-optic equipment and traditional phone switches fell and Lucent had to increase reserves for potentially bad loans to phone companies for equipment purchases. The company also plans to cut fiscal 2001 targets later this month from growth of 20 percent in both sales and profit.

McGinn has been promising a turnaround since the first warning in January, which came after the company had beat profit expectations for 15 straight quarters.

(Photo appeared on page 1D.) Photo by Rihcard Drew/Associated Press:  LUCENT PLUNGES 32.2 %% :  Trader Paul Olsen (center) holds an order slip at the post that trades Lucent Technologies on the New York Stock Exchange floor Wednesday. Lucent shares plunged 32.2 percent, hitting a two-year low, after the telecommunications equipment maker warned for the third time this year that profits won't meet steadily declining expectations.   

Document CLTO000020090630dwac0158m
?
 

 European Corporate Bonds Dented By Equities Tailspin 

 By Claudia Barrios Semerci 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
526 words
12 October 2000
09:34
Capital Markets Report
CM
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)- European corporate bonds are seeing wider moves in their yield spreads as the global, Nasdaq-led plunge in equity prices filters into credit markets. 

 "Equity market volatility remains the most important driver of credit markets at the moment," says Gary Jenkins, head of European credit research at Barclays Capital. 

 Wednesday, the Nasdaq composite sank more than 2.2% to 3168.49 following a profit warning from Lucent Technologies Inc. (LU) late Tuesday. 

 Weak equity markets have weighed down the corporate debt market for some time, but a recent rash of profit and revenue warnings from U.S. companies has prompted investors to accelerate their retreat from stocks and underlying debt instruments. 

 "The best example of this is the reaction seen in the bond market following Xerox's warnings over third quarter earnings. Its bonds didn't react following an earlier downgrade by both agencies, yet widened up to 115 basis points following the profit warnings,." said Barclays Capital's Jenkins. 

 On Sept. 27, Moody's Investor Services and Standard & Poor's both downgraded Xerox (T.XER) from A3/A- to Baa2/BBB respectively. Then on Oct. 2, Xerox announced it expected to post a loss of 15 to 20 cents a share for the third quarter, reversing an earlier prediction for a moderate profit. The stock price dropped 26% last week and its Eurobonds remain 250 basis points wider since early September. 

 Credit spread widening is a reflection of investors jumping into government bonds at the expense of equities and corporate debt. 

 "People are buying safer assets but not in huge amounts yet," says a European credit strategist at a U.S. bank. "This will increase if equity markets remain nervous. The European telecom and auto sector are suffering in particular from wider bond spreads, though overall trading volume is muted at the moment." 

 According to monthly figures compiled by Chase Manhattan Bank, benchmark size bonds from triple and double A rated European credits have seen yield spreads trade flat to one basis point wider over governments, compared to a 23 basis point move by triple B credits. The European telecom sector on its own has widened 20 basis points. 

 The moves in the triple B market segment have been led by specific bonds, such as Tecnost and Clear Channel. 

 "The equity market is violent in its reaction to profit warnings but at the moment it is still a very credit specific move," adds Barclays's Jenkins. 

 In the short-term, analysts expect a flight to quality to continue, with investors avoiding event risk by focusing on defensive floating rate note product and triple A names in the front-end of the curve. 


Bonds from supranational, sovereign and agency names have dominated
primary market activity in the last few sessions. Further
euro-denominated issuance from the European Investment Bank and Freddie
Mac (FRE) is set to appeal to a more cautious investor going forward.
-By Claudia Barrios Semerci, Dow Jones Newswires;
+44-20-7842-9318; claudia.barrios@dowjones.com
-0- 12/10/00 08-34G


Document cm00000020010804dwac00owz
?
 

 Financial Post 
 Tech profit fears spook markets: Lucent, Motorola issue warnings: From Europe to Asia, Nasdaq's woes are hitting exchanges 

 Scott Adams 
Financial Post
1,054 words
12 October 2000
National Post
FINP
National
C01 / Front
English
 (c) National Post 2000. All Rights Reserved. 

 Two more earnings warnings from technology giants helped to pummell markets yesterday, sending the Nasdaq composite index sliding within a whisker of its year low. 

 The latest casualties were Lucent Technologies Inc. and Motorola Inc., who warned analysts late Tuesday to cut back on their forecasts, adding to what already has been a fall season of disappointments. Lucent lost 32.3% to close at US$21 1/4 in New York, while Motorola fell 18.7% to end the day at US$21 7/16. 

 One big U.S. company after another -- including Intel Corp., Eastman Kodak Co., Xerox Corp., Dell Computer Corp., Apple Computer Inc., Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. -- has dropped a profit warning bomb, shaking confidence in the broader markets, but especially in technology stocks. 

 North American indexes embarked on a choppy ride yesterday, as indexes plunged early then clawed back some ground. 

 Some investors re-entered the fray looking for bargains in the afternoon, though many others clearly believe the market has not yet bottomed out. 

 The selling has come in waves in the last few weeks and more waves could come, said Dom Grestoni, an Investors Group portfolio manager. "I suspect we haven't seen the end yet," he said. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index fell as low as 10039.34 yesterday, before recovering to end the day down 249.83, or 2.40%, to 10145.00. 

 Trading on Nasdaq was the fourth busiest day in its history. Its composite index opened lower, but retraced its losses in the afternoon and actually pushed into positive territory, before retreating back again. 

 It closed at 3168.49, off 2.22% or 72.05 points on the day, just above the closing low this year. It hit that low on May 23, which was the lowest point during the severe spring correction. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average followed a similar path yesterday, ending down 110.61 points, or 1.05%, to 10413.79. 

 It wasn't that long ago that Toronto was a positively giddy market, setting new record highs in August, but it has caved in just six weeks, thanks mainly its superstar, Nortel Networks Corp., which has declined 23.5% since Sept. 1. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index is now down 9.8% since Sept. 1, while the Nasdaq is down 24.7% and the Dow is down 7.1% over that time. From Europe to Asia, the Nasdaq's woes have broadsided foreign indexes too. 

 The combination of rising interest rates, rocketing energy prices and a falling euro are causing companies to reduce profit expectations for next year. 

 That spells trouble for technology stocks in particular because many of them had been trading at record valuations. 

 "The market got carried away with expectations," said John Hock, an international portfolio manager who runs funds for CI Mutual Funds. Tax-loss selling could cause many former high-flying stock to fall further at the end of the year, he said. 

 "Even with companies that are making expectations, the market is looking for the warts and pimples and is taking them down anyway," said Kim Shannon, portfolio manager with Merrill Lynch Investment Managers. 

 A value-style fund manager, Ms. Shannon points out that many old-economy industrial companies have been havens during the Nasdaq-led selloff. 

 "We're finding that value style holds up very well in this environment," she said. "I'm the kind of person who enjoys [times] like this." 

 But any pain technology stocks go through now could turn out to be a blessing in disguise because it will suppress the wealth in the United States, said Peter Gibson, director of quantitative research and strategy at Scotia Capital. 

 That may help prevent the U.S. from raising interest rates further, Mr. Gibson said, and only when interest rates start heading back down will stocks really be able to rally again, he said. 

 BIG, BAD TECH DISAPPOINTMENTS: 

 Sept. 22 - Intel Copp dropped 22% after saying third qyuarter profit will be below forecasts. It pointed at weak demand in Europe and slowing PC sales. 

 Sept. 26 - Eastman Kodak Co. fell 25%, warning that third-quarter earnings will fall short of expectations. It described slower film and digital products sales. 

 Sept. 29 - Apple Computer Inc. fell 52% on a reduced fourth-quarter outlook, warning of slowing sales for its PCs. 

 Oct. 3 - Xerox Corp. fell 27% on its first quarterly loss in 16 years, blaming increased competition and the weakening euro. 

 Oct. 5 - Dell Computer Corp. fell 11% on a third quarter revenue warning, citing weak demand for computers in Europe. 

 Oct. 11 - Lucent Technologies plunged 32%, saying 2001 forecasts are too high. It is losing fibre-optics equipment sales to Nortel Networks. 

 Oct. 11 - Motorola lost 19% on a lower outlook for the fourth quarter and 2001, blaming the falling euro, tax rates and slower mobile phone shipments. 

sadams@nationalpost.com; See related story "Tech melt still not dangerous" on page C12.

 Chart/Graph: Bloomberg News, Kagan McLeod, National Post / BIG, BAD TECH DISAPPOINTMENTS: NASDAQ: Yesterday's close: 3,168.49 - 72.05: (See print copy for complete chart/graph.); Chart/Graph: Bloomberg News, Kagan McLeod, National Post / BIG, BAD TECH DISAPPOINTMENTS: Motorola: In U.S. dollars: Oct. 11: $21 7/16 -4 15/16: (See print copy for complete chart/graph.); Chart/Graph: Bloomberg News, Kagan McLeod, National Post / BIG, BAD TECH DISAPPOINTMENTS: Apple: In U.S. dollars: Oct. 11: $19 5/8 -1 1/4: (See print copy for complete chart/graph.); Chart/Graph: Bloomberg News, Kagan McLeod, National Post / BIG, BAD TECH DISAPPOINTMENTS: Dell: In U.S. dollars: Oct. 11: $23 - 1 1/4: (See print copy for complete chart/graph.); Chart/Graph: Bloomberg News, Kagan McLeod, National Post / BIG, BAD TECH DISAPPOINTMENTS: Intel: In U.S. dollars: Oct. 11: $35 3/8 - 2 3/16: (See print copy for complete chart/graph.); Chart/Graph: Bloomberg News, Kagan McLeod, National Post / BIG, BAD TECH DISAPPOINTMENTS: Lucent Technologies: In U.S. dollars: Oct. 11: $21 1/4 - 10 1/8: (See print copy for complete chart/graph.); List: Bloomberg News, Kagan McLeod, National Post / BIG, BAD TECH DISAPPOINTMENTS: (Online) 

Document finp000020010806dwac00p2d
?
 

 Companies: Xerox Slashes Its Quarterly Dividend ---  Cut  to Five Cents a Share Comes Amid Pressure to Boost Profitability 

 By Joseph Pereira 
Staff Reporter
419 words
11 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
5
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Xerox Corp., under pressure to conserve cash and improve profitability, slashed its quarterly dividend to five cents (5.76 European cents) a share from 20 cents a share. 

 The action peeled back the shareholder payout to 1966 levels and is expected to save the company about $400 million annually. 

 Struggling to deal with mounting competition, a technological shift toward computer printers and away from its core copier products, and nonpayments from some customers, Xerox had warned that it planned the dividend cut last week, without giving a figure. 

 The cut, announced after the close of regular New York Stock Exchange trading Tuesday, was steep but not as drastic as analysts had considered possible. "By my estimates, this is the maximum level of dividend the company can afford to pay," said Gibboney Huske, of Credit Suisse First Boston. "I thought that perhaps Xerox would also suspend the dividend in its entirety." 

 In New York Stock Exchange composite trading midday Tuesday, Xerox's stock was up 31.25 cents at $10.75. 

 The shares plunged 26% last week following a warning that Xerox would post a third-quarter loss of 15 cents to 20 cents a share, reversing earlier expectations of a modest profit. 

 On Sept. 27, Moody's lowered its rating on that debt to Baa-2 from single-A-3. The Moody's rating outlook remains stable. 

 Last month, Standard & Poor's Rating Group also lowered its long-term debt ratings on Xerox from single-A-minus to triple-B/Stable. 

 Xerox also has indicated that it will consider selling parts of its noncore businesses. To that end, analysts have named some likely sale candidates, including Xerox's vast financing operations; its 50% interest in Fuji Xerox, a big joint venture with Fuji Photo Film Co.; and Xerox's low-end inkjet and copier business. The assets, singled out for the auction block by analysts, are valued at between $5 billion and $8 billion. 

 But the company has given no indication of where the trimming will come from. 

 Company officials have also signaled that there would be more job cuts coming. Xerox, which has already been through several downsizings, is currently in the middle of one. The company, however, has said it doesn't plan to cut its sales force. 

 The common dividend is payable Jan. 1, 2001, to stock of record Dec. 1, 2000. 

Document wsje000020010814dwab00g2m
?
 

 Singapore shares driven lower by techs at midday. 

332 words
11 October 2000
06:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

     SINGAPORE, Oct 11 (Reuters) - Singapore shares were 

 battered by midday on Wednesday as Chartered Semiconductor 

 Manufacturing lost almost 12 percent after its major 

 customer cut profit growth forecast. 


    The Straits Times Index	 , which plunged to an early



low of 1,847.11, recovered some ground to end the morning



session down 2.60 percent, or 49.67 points, at 1,864.14 points.



    Chartered, the world's third largest independent foundry,



tumbled to a new year low of S$7.95, before inching back to



S$8.00, down more than 11 percent, on a volume of nearly four



million shares.



    At current levels, Chartered is trading at a slight



discount to its U.S. depositary shares, which work to be about



S$8.20.



    Dharmo Soejanto, analyst with Kim Eng Securities, said the



slump in Chartered shares was due to a profit warning by major



customer Lucent Technologies , which accounted for 10-15



percent of its revenue.



    Chartered is expected to announce its third quarter results



on October 19.



    Sister company ST Assembly Test Services			,



which provide testing services for chips, also fell more than



six percent to a new year low of S$2.83, down 19 cents, on



volume of almost three million shares.



Electronics contract manufacturers like Venture



Manufacturing and Omni Industries were also



hit by the overall bearish sentiment on tech stocks. However,



the higher third quarter profits posted by their major customer



Motorola , which were within market expectations,



cushioned a sharper fall.



    Venture was down 40 cents at S$14.00 while Omni was down



nine cents at S$2.45.



    In the broader market, volume was moderate at 125 million



shares, compared with 80 million shares by midday on Tuesday.



    Losers outnumbered gainers 241 to 35, with 71 issues



unchanged.



    Other sectors were also lower, including property and



finance, ignoring a strong rise in preliminary third quarter



gross domestic product of 10.2 percent announced on Tuesday.


Document lba0000020010822dwab04jl1
?
 

 Dollar up from lows, foreigners load up on JGBs. 

196 words
11 October 2000
01:31
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 0026 GMT - Dollar picking up some Japanese commercial buying to edge away from 107.65 yen support amid good two-way flows. - But talk market still long of dollars and fresh offers as low as 108.00/108.20. Chart targets at 107.23, the 200-day moving average, and a Fibonacci retracement level at 107.17. - Euro keeps its toe-hold above 87 cents aided by an after-hours profit warning from Lucent that savaged that stock and further dented Nasdaq futures . - Japanese investment flow data showed foreigners net sellers of equities in September but only by a modest 68.6 bln yen, less than many dealers had thought. - And foreigners bought a huge 1.18 trln yen of JGBs while Japanese investors sold a net 388 bln yen of foreign bonds, all of it coming from life insurers and investment trusts. - The data will reinforce market suspicions that insurers are actively cutting back foreign exposure even without the failure of Chiyoda. 

  - Net the figures show a portfolio inflow into Japan of about 1.1 trln yen in September, which should be supportive of the yen. 

Document lba0000020010822dwab04jel
?
 

 U.S. stocks set to swoon as earnings woes mount. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
653 words
11 October 2000
13:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 11 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were set to swoon at the open on Wednesday following a fresh profit warning from Lucent Technologies Inc., less-than-stellar quarterly earnings numbers from tech bellwethers and oil prices on yet another tear. 

 "It looks terrible out there," said Peter Cardillo, director of research at Westfalia Investments. "The market is sceptical of anything and everything. It's quite obvious that we are in a very bearish mode here, and it's going to take a real capitulation before things turn around." 

 Lucent , the world's largest telecom equipment maker, became the latest in a stream of firms to warn profits would be below forecasts. The company said after the market closed on Tuesday that earnings would fall 25-29 percent - prompting several investment downgrades from leading brokerage houses. 

 Its shares dropped to $23 on the Instinet brokerage system before the market opened, well off their $31-3/8 close. 

 An avalanche in European technology stocks began overnight after the more than 3.40 percent drop in the tech-packed Nasdaq on Tuesday. More than an hour ahead of the opening bell, the Nasdaq 100 index futures were down a hefty 80.00 points at 3,080.00, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index future for December was down 6.00 points at 1,384.80. 

 "This tech ship is navigating without a captain, and that continues to drag everything down," Cardillo said. 

 Online media giant Yahoo! Inc. posted results which beat expectations after the market closed on Tuesday - but unveiled a decline in advertisers on its site. Yahoo dropped to $74 in pre-opening trade, off its close of $82-11/16 on the Nasdaq. 

 Mobile phone maker Motorola Inc. came out with third-quarter figures which matched Wall Street expectations late on Tuesday - but some analysts expressed concerns about lower mobile phone revenues. 

 It dipped to $25 in pre-opening trade, off its $26-3/8 close on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Meanwhile, oil prices pushed higher, boosted by falling U.S. fuel stockpiles and forecasts of more cold spells heading to North America. 

 Tensions in the Middle East, where intense diplomatic efforts are underway to end Israeli-Palestinian violence and rescue the peace process, are also helping keep prices strong. 

 The rise takes the value of crude oil further into what the United States has called the danger zone above $30 a barrel. 

 "We are getting all the bad news, and even the good news turns into bad news," Cardillo said. "The market will continue to feel the weight of earnings disappointments. But there are other companies that have to report, so hopefully that will stem the decline." 

 Warnings of softer profits and revenues from the likes of top computer chip maker Intel Corp. and Apple Computer Inc. have helped send Wall Street into a downward spiral. Worries about slowing U.S. economic growth, high oil prices, a weak European single currency and dwindling corporate profits are swamping Wall Street. 

 Technology stocks suffered another case of the fall chills on Tuesday, revisiting lows not seen since May, with semiconductors leading the slide amid mounting investor fears that the computer chip market is slowing. 

 The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index , reflecting selling in semiconductor, computer and software companies, fell more than 3.40 percent to close at 3,240.54, after a recent string of losses put it near this year's closing low of 3,164.55 set on May 23. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial average , a gauge of 30 blue chip companies, shed 44.03 points, or 0.42 percent, to 10,524.40, dragged lower by technology components like computing giant International Business Machines Corp. . 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 lost 16.09 points, or 1.15 percent, at 1,385.94. 

Document lba0000020010822dwab04gqe
?
 

 FOREX-Dollar loses shine as U.S. stocks  decline . 

 By Sabrina Ghani 
814 words
11 October 2000
13:03
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Oct 11 (Reuters) - The dollar fell to one-week lows against major European currencies on Wednesday amid growing concerns that the recent sell-off in U.S. stocks could have negative implications for economic growth in the United States. 

 The Swiss franc, which has been traditionally seen as a safe-haven currency, benefited most from prevailing jitters about U.S. stocks. 

 Although the euro pulled back from earlier highs against the dollar, as it underperformed the Swiss franc, traders said persistent wariness about further joint intervention by the Group of Seven industrialised nations should limit the euro's downside. 

 The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index closed near to the year's closing low, set on May 23, while an after-hours profit warning from telecommunications equipment maker Lucent Technologies was expected to sour U.S. stocks further on Wednesday. 

 Traders noted that while there has been no direct link between the euro's moves against the dollar and the performance of the U.S. Nasdaq this year, the market's main concern was the heavy exposure of U.S. consumers to U.S. stocks. 

 "What it boils down to is there is still euro negative sentiment, which is being held up by the fear of intervention and concerns about U.S. equity markets," said Tony Norfield, head of global treasury research at ABN Amro Bank in London. 

 "I think because of the setback in U.S. equity markets, on the face of it, there will be concern about U.S. economic growth and hence the euro has stabilised. There is concern because of the low savings ratio and dependence on capital gains in the U.S. to keep the spending boom going." 

 NASDAQ FALLS FOR FIVE STRAIGHT WEEKS 

 The Nasdaq index - the best bellwether for the new economy - has now fallen for five weeks in a row and is 37 percent below its record peak of March. 

 The dollar fell to one-week troughs around 0.8765 per euro earlier before recovering ground to settle close to New York's closing levels just above $0.87. 

 It hit one-week troughs around 1.7280 Swiss francs and around $1.4640 per British pound. Euro/Swiss franc fell to troughs around 1.5110. 

 "You can look at Euro/Swiss franc and see safe-haven plays re-emerging from September, when people started to take profit on long dollar positions, but were not keen to buy the euro," said Jane Foley, currency strategist at Barclays Capital. 

 "From the current perspective, if there is fear of volatility in stocks, it means that economies with a current account surplus will benefit the most." 

 Latest data showed Germany's trade surplus narrowed to 4.0 billion marks in August from 5.9 billion in August 1999. 

 German industrial output rose a seasonally adjusted 1.1 percent in August, above a consensus forecast for 0.2 percent gain. 

 Some traders said there was a chance that the G7 might choose to take advantage of the euro's recent gains to prop it up further, but most perceived that the G7's objective was to stabilise the euro, which has so far been achieved. 

 "The U.S. dollar is definitely the most vulnerable (from U.S. equity weakness) and it's always more sensible to intervene when the market is going your way and in September they intervened when the euro was going their way," said a trader at a Japanese bank in London. 

 "But they may well be satisfied now to see the euro going up on its own." 

 Elsewhere, the main focus for the yen remained this week's news of the bankruptcy of the Japanese Chiyoda Mutual Life Insurance Co and the potential liquidation of its and other insurers' massive foreign currency assets. 

 Dealers in Tokyo doubted that Chiyoda was repatriating much if anything of its portfolio. But its failure, and perhaps more importantly the fact that the authorities allowed it to fail, could encourage other insurers to be even more conservative in their foreign investments, they said. 

 September data on portfolio flows showed life insurers were already leery about foreign bonds, dumping a net 334 billion yen ($3.10 billion) worth. 

 The real surprise in the data was that offshore investors had snapped up 1.18 trillion yen of JGBs, bringing their net purchases so far this year to a massive 6.9 trillion. While much of that would be hedged for forex exposure, it also came on top of a trade surplus that averages around one trillion yen a month. 

 This underlying demand for yen was one reason the currency remained strong despite troublesome fundamentals such as rising debt levels and dismal consumer demand, dealers said. 

 The dollar was hemmed just below 108 yen, treading a path within the previous day's ranges. 

Document lba0000020010822dwab04gm4
?
 

 Before the Bell - Lucent lower after warning. 

149 words
11 October 2000
12:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 11 (Reuters) - Shares in Lucent Technologies Inc. were sharply lower in pre-opening trade on Wednesday after another warning about profit growth from the telecommunications equipment maker. 

 Lucent, one of the most widely held U.S. stocks, was at $23 on the Instinet electronic broker system, down from a Tuesday close of $31-3/8. 

 After markets closed on Tuesday, Lucent said fourth-quarter profits would fall 25 to 29 percent. The company cited lower-than-expected optical sales and a faster drop in sales of traditional telephone switch equipment. 

 Lucent has cut its growth outlook three times this year. 

 Yahoo! Inc. fell to $74 from a close of $82-11/16. After markets closed on Tuesday, the Internet media company reported higher-than-expected sales and earnings but said the number of advertisers on its site had declined. 

Document lba0000020010822dwab04g4n
?
 

 Lucent seen sending Wall St lower at open. 

443 words
11 October 2000
12:04
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Oct 11 (Reuters) - Wall Street looked set to tumble at Wednesday's opening as another profit warning rattled an already nervous market, although investors in U.S. stocks in Europe were trading cautiously. 

 "It's just bleak news. There is nothing good out there at the moment, and if you're looking for reasons to sell there are just far too many there," said one dealer in London. 

 Lucent Technologies Inc. became the latest in a stream of firms to warn profits would come below forecast. The company said after New York closed that fourth-quarter profits would fall 25-29 percent. 

 Its shares were trading at $24-1/2 on the Instinet brokerage system, near their levels after hours in the United States but well off their $31-3/8 official U.S. close. 

 "Sentiment is pretty fragile to say the least. Investors don't need much encouragement to sell these things," said another trader. 

 December Nasdaq composite index futures were trading down 44 points at 3,116.0 by 1040 GMT, while fair value was quoted at 3,227.48, suggesting the index would continue its recent slide lower. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average also looked set for a drop at the open, as December Standard & Poor's 500 index futures were down 2.9 points at 1,388.1. Fair value was quoted at 1,400.22 points. 

 Adding to the nervousness, Internet media firm Yahoo Inc. posted higher third-quarter sales and earnings that beat most official estimates, but it raised worries by unveiling a decline in the number of advertisers on its site. The stock was traded at $76 on Instinet, edging back from its after-hours U.S. level of $77-1/2 and well below its New York close of $82-11/16. 

 Mobile phone maker Motorola Inc. also came out with third-quarter figures which matched Wall Street expectations, but failed to excite as some analysts expressed concerns about lower mobile phone revenues. 

 It dipped to $25-3/8 in Europe, compared with $26-1/4 after hours in the United States and $26-3/8 at the close. 

 But dealers said trading in Europe had been modest, as investors seemed unwilling to dive into the market. "There's no selling pressure, things have just been marked down," said one trader. 

 Among the other movers in Europe, computer chip giant Intel Corp dipped to $37-1/8 from its U.S. close of 37-9/16, while networking firm Cisco Systems Inc. was traded at $50 compared with its $51-1/8 U.S. finish. 

Document lba0000020010822dwab04fz9
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Lucent off 31 percent after latest  profit warning . 

 By Jessica Hall 
619 words
11 October 2000
15:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 11 (Reuters) - Shares of Lucent Technologies Inc. fell as much as 31 percent on Wednesday after the world's largest telecommunications equipment maker slashed its profit-growth outlook for the third time this year and warned it would cut its 2001 forecast as well. 

 Shares of Lucent, which is struggling to recover from product development and manufacturing missteps, dropped $10-1/8 to $21-1/4 - a low unseen since January 1998. The stock, which later firmed slightly to $22-1/4, has fallen 71 percent this year. 

 Several brokerage firms, including ABN AMRO, CS First Boston, and Morgan Stanley, downgraded the stock. PaineWebber and Merrill Lynch cut their earnings forecasts. Goldman Sachs also cut its earnings outlook, but advised clients not to sell Lucent shares at their depressed prices. 

 After the stock market closed on Tuesday, Lucent said fourth-quarter profits would fall 25 to 29 percent. The company previously expected profits to rise 15 percent. It also said fourth-quarter gross margins would be 39 to 40 percent, below analysts' expectations of 40 to 44 percent. 

 Murray Hill, N.J.-based Lucent cited several reasons for the fourth-quarter shortfall. It established higher reserves to cover potential bad debts from loans made to upstart telephone companies; saw a 13 percent drop in sales of traditional telephone switching equipment; and experienced a 5 percent drop in sales of optical networking systems, including optical fiber. 

 Lucent also plans to cut its growth outlook for 2001. It said it would provide details when it releases its fourth-quarter earnings report on Oct. 24. 

 Lucent, once a Wall Street darling, has been working to rebuild investor confidence, catch up to rivals in the booming optical networking industry, and restructure its operations. The recovery, however, has taken longer than it originally expected. 

 "There are no near-term catalysts suggesting an improvement in LU's share performance," CS First Boston analysts James Parmelee and Marc Cabi wrote in a research note. "We believe the company will remain in turnaround mode through mid-2001." 

 Lucent's problems are company-specific, and don't reflect the health of the rest of the equipment market, analysts said. 

 "We strongly believe weakness in optical systems sales is tied to lower demand for Lucent products, not current market conditions, which are robust for companies like Nortel Networks," ABN AMRO analyst Kenneth Leon wrote in a research report. 

 Lucent's woes began in January when it said it had been unable to manufacture new-generation networking products fast enough to keep up with robust customer demand. The company said it failed to gauge customers' quick shift toward high-speed fiber-optic products and it fell behind rivals such as Nortel Networks Corp. 

 Lucent's new chief financial officer, Deborah Hopkins, said the company aims to restructure its operations after it examines each segment of its business, its expenses and procedures. The company also continues to search for a chief operating officer. 

 Lucent's stock will likely remain depressed until the company provides guidance on its 2001 outlook, analysts said. The stock could see a jump by next spring as it nears the planned spin-off of its microelectronics unit, which makes semiconductors and components, analysts said. 

 The microelectronics spin-off is expected to have a much stronger debut than Lucent's Avaya unit, which makes telephone networks for corporations. Avaya traded at $13-11/16, down from its opening price of $22-7/8 on Oct. 2. 

 "Investors should not sell LU at these levels, the stock is likely to outperform from here as the microelectronics spinoff nears," Goldman analyst Mary Henry said. 

Document lba0000020010822dwab04c3x
?
 

 U.S. tech stocks slide under mounting profit woes. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
562 words
11 October 2000
15:27
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 11 (Reuters) - U.S. technology shares skidded in early morning trading on Wednesday as investors fled the sector following a fresh profit warning from Lucent Technologies Inc. and disappointing quarterly earnings numbers from technology bellwethers. 

 "This tech ship is navigating without a captain, and that continues to drag everything down," said Peter Cardillo, director of research at Westfalia Investments. 

 Meanwhile, blue chips flirted with positive territory as investors sought shelter in energy, pharmaceutical and beverage companies. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index shed 35.87 points, or 1.11 percent, at 3,204.67. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 6.29 points, or 0.06 percent, at 10,530.69. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was down 8.14 points, or 0.59 percent, at 1,378.88. 

 Lucent late Tuesday became the latest in a stream of firms to warn profits would miss forecasts. The world's largest telecommunications equipment maker cut its profit growth outlook for the third time this year - prompting a string of investment downgrades from top brokerage houses and sending its shares down 30 percent, or $9-1/2, to $21-7/8 on the Big Board. 

 Yahoo! Inc. shed more than 13 percent, or $11-1/16, to $71-5/8, in heavy trading on the Nasdaq. The online media giant posted results which beat expectations but showed a decline in advertisers on its site. The American Stock Exchange Internet index .IIX) fell 3.59 percent. 

 Mobile phone maker Motorola Inc. skidded more than 18 percent, or $4-7/8, to $21-1/2, on the New York Stock Exchange. The tech giant came out with quarterly figures that matched expectations but lowered its earnings expectations through 2001 - citing weaker growth in mobile phone sales. 

 Finnish cell phone maker Nokia Corp. lost $2-5/8 on the New York Stock Exchange to $32-3/8, ranking as one of the most actively traded issue on the Big Board. Its Swedish rival Ericsson edged 1/2 lower to $13-5/8. 

 The North American Telecom index suffered a 3.16 percent loss amid the bad news from Lucent and Motorola. 

 "It's quite obvious that we are in a very bearish mode here, and it's going to take a real capitulation before things turn around," Cardillo said. 

 The Philadelphia Semiconductor index .SOXX) lost another 0.51 percent after steep losses on Tuesday. Two leading brokerage firms had downgraded a pair of chip firms on Tuesday, aggravating fears the chip cycle had hit its peak. 

 Meanwhile, oil prices pushed higher, boosted by falling U.S. fuel stockpiles and forecasts of more cold spells heading to North America. Exxon Mobil Corp., the No. 1 U.S. oil company and a Dow component, rallied $1-3/8 to $94-5/8 - surging to an all-time high of $94-3/4 early in the session. 

 Older-style companies offered some support to the Dow amid the technology swoon. Healthcare companies Johnson & Johnson gained $1-5/16 to $95-15/16, and Merck & Co. rose 13/16 to $77-3/4. Beverage giant Coca Cola Co. jumped $1-1/8 to $59-5/16. Diversified manufacturer Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co. climbed $1-1/2 to $95-1/15. 

Document lba0000020010822dwab04c0t
?
 

 Lucent off 31 percent after latest  profit warning . 

233 words
11 October 2000
15:01
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 11 (Reuters) - Shares of Lucent Technologies Inc. fell 31 percent on Wednesday after the world's largest telecommunications equipment maker slashed its profit-growth outlook for the third time this year and warned it would cut its 2001 forecast as well. 

 Shares of Lucent, which has been struggling to recover from product development and manufacturing missteps, dropped $10-1/8, or 31 percent, to $21-1/4 in heavy morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Several brokerage firms, including ABN AMRO, CS First Boston, and Morgan Stanely, downgraded the stock. PaineWebber and Merrill Lynch cut their earnings forecasts. Goldman Sachs also cut its earnings outlook, but advised clients not to sell Lucent shares at their depressed prices. 

 After the stock market closed on Tuesday, Lucent said fourth-quarter profits would fall 25 to 29 percent. The company previously expected profits to rise 15 percent. It also said gross margins would be 39 to 40 percent, below analysts' expectations of 40 to 44 percent. 

 Murray Hill, N.J.-based Lucent cited several reasons for the fourth-quarter shortfall. It established higher reserves to cover potential bad debts from loans made to upstart telephone companies; saw a 13 percent drop in sales of traditional telephone switching equipment; and experienced a 5 percent drop in sales of optical networking systems, including optical fiber. 

Document lba0000020010822dwab04brp
?
 

 Lucent CEO McGinn under pressure after warning. 

 By Jessica Hall 
650 words
11 October 2000
17:48
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 11 (Reuters) - Lucent Technologies Inc.'s latest profit warning, its third this year, puts great pressure on its Chairman Rich McGinn to show fast progress in reviving the ailing telecommunications equipment maker or resign, analysts and investors said on Wednesday. 

 After the stock market closed on Tuesday, Lucent confirmed Wall Street's fears that it would miss its fourth-quarter profit targets. It said fourth-quarter profits would fall 25 to 29 percent and 2001 forecasts would be cut as well. 

 Lucent's stock plunged, hitting a level unseen since January 1998. The stock fell $9-15/16, or nearly 32 percent, to $21-7/16 on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock, once a Wall Street darling, has skidded more than 70 percent this year. 

 Rumours swirled late last month that McGinn would be forced to resign if Lucent missed its fourth-quarter growth targets. One analyst said the company had hired executive recruiting firm Korn/Ferry International to find his replacement. 

 Lucent declined to comment. Korn/Ferry could not be reached for comment. 

 The rumours of McGinn's ouster intensified on Wednesday. 

 "There's a lot of rumours going around. He's clearly at risk. I think a change (in management) would help the stock," said Robert W. Baird & Co. analyst Ted Moreau. 

 Lucent has been working to rebuild investor confidence, catch up to rivals in the booming optical networking industry and restructure its operations. 

 Its problems have been wide-spread. Lucent missed the cues that its telecommunications customers would shift toward high-speed fiber optic products and away from traditional telephone switch networks. When it finally jumped on the optical boom, it already was behind rivals such as Canada's Nortel Networks Corp.. 

 Lucent in January said it had been unable to manufacture its new optical networking products fast enough to keep up with robust customer demand. It lost orders to rivals and disappointed key customers, analysts said. 

 While the company had hoped to resolve its manufacturing and product development problems earlier this year, the woes lingered into the fourth quarter. 

 Fourth-quarter sales of optical networking systems fell 5 percent, and sales of traditional telephone switching equipment dropped 13 percent. 

 McGinn said the problems were "fixable," but some investors were not convinced. 

 "He's been saying all year that they were going to fix the problems. But I just see things getting worse instead of better," said one portfolio manager who holds shares of Lucent. 

 Some analysts said McGinn, who started his communications career in 1969 at Illinois Bell and spent about 18 years at Lucent's former parent AT&T Corp., had been slow to identify the the industry's shift toward data and optical networking. 

 Telephone companies, Internet service providers and large corporations have been clamouring for sophisticated equipment that can handle increasingly large volumes of data and voice traffic sparked by the boom in the Internet. 

 "They've been a little bit too much tied to their AT&T roots in their culture and processes. They need to move away from that," Moreau said. 

 Lucent "needs to move from being a product and engineering company to a system and solutions company and be more market-driven.... From my perspective I think that some of these problems should have been addressed awhile ago," Moreau said. 

 If Lucent successfully delivers on its promises to reorganize its operations, cut costs and improves product delivery times, McGinn could win a pardon, some analysts said. 

 But the clock is running. 

 "I'm sure McGinn is capable of fixing it, but the question is will Wall Street give him the time? Five years ago, he'd be given the time. But in today's short-attention-span world, CEOs don't have the luxury of time," said independent telecommunications analyst Jeffrey Kagan. 

Document lba0000020010822dwab04blu
?
 

 Euro rises to week's highs vs dollar in Europe. 

137 words
11 October 2000
07:40
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 0635 GMT - Euro hits week's highs vs dollar and day's highs vs yen , supported by persistent wariness of G7 intervention and benefiting from U.S. Nasdaq's decline to four-month lows a day ago and profit-warning from Lucent after the closing bell. 

 - Euro faces chart resistance around $0.8750, near current levels, and 95.10 yen. 

 - German Aug trade surplus narrowed to 4 bln German marks vs 10.3 bln in July. 

 - BOF Governor Jean-Claude Trichet said late on Tuesday that U.S., Japan interest in European prosperity and G7 intervention speaks for itself and reitered euro zone positions that strong euro is in Europe's interest. 

 - Dollar trapped in tight ranges against the yen between 108.10 and 107.60 yen . 

Document lba0000020010822dwab04bed
?
 

 Lucent's stock plummets - chairman comes under fire. 

 By Jessica Hall 
963 words
11 October 2000
21:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 11 (Reuters) - Lucent Technologies Inc.'s chairman faces pressure to resign or make bold changes at the telecommunications equipment maker after its third profit warning this year and a 30 percent drop in its stock price on Wednesday. 

 After the stock market closed Tuesday, Lucent confirmed Wall Street fears it would miss fourth-quarter profit targets. It said fourth-quarter profits would fall 25 to 29 percent and 2001 profit forecasts would be cut as well. 

 Lucent's stock plunged, hitting a level unseen since January 1998. The stock fell $10-1/8, or around 32 percent, to $21-1/4 on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock, once a Wall Street darling, has skidded more than 70 percent this year. 

 Several brokerage firms, including ABN AMRO, CS First Boston and Morgan Stanley, downgraded the stock. PaineWebber and Merrill Lynch cut their earnings forecasts. Goldman Sachs also cut its earnings outlook, but advised clients not to sell Lucent shares at their depressed prices. 

 Rumours swirled late last month that McGinn would be forced to resign if Lucent missed its fourth-quarter growth targets. Once Lucent confirmed the profit shortfall, those rumours intensified. 

 "He's totally lost confidence with investors. The hourglass has been turned over and now it's just a matter of waiting for the sand to run out," said Frank Dzubeck, president of consulting firm Communications Network Architects. 

 One analyst said the company recently hired executive recruiting firm Korn/Ferry International to find McGinn's replacement. Lucent declined to comment. Korn/Ferry could not be reached for comment. 

 "He's got to be out of there. I'm surprised it hasn't happened already. They're a mess. I think it's recoverable, but I think it will take a major management shake-up," said Christine Heckart, an analyst with communications consulting firm TeleChoice. 

 Dzubeck expects McGinn to leave in about four to six months once Lucent taps a replacement. 

 "It's over (for McGinn). He's just there still because they don't want to have a rudderless ship," Dzubeck said. 

 Lucent has been working to rebuild investor confidence, catch up to rivals in the booming optical networking industry and restructure operations. To survive, the company must make bold changes instead of merely tinkering with business procedures, analysts said. 

 Lucent should cut 30-40 percent of its employees, get rid of several layers of middle management and streamline its bureaucratic ways, Heckart said. 

 "People seem to forget that Lucent is AT&T. They did very little when they spun off (from AT&T) to change the culture. They got a new logo and a great marketing campaign, but they're as fat and bureaucratic as AT&T ever was," Heckart said. 

 AT&T Corp. spun off Lucent in 1996. 

 Lucent's problems have been wide-spread. Lucent missed the industry's shift toward high-speed fiber optic products and away from traditional telephone switch networks. When it finally jumped on the optical boom, it already trailed rivals such as Canada's Nortel Networks Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc. 

 When Lucent tried to launch its own optical product line, it was unable to manufacture the products fast enough to keep up with robust customer demand. It lost orders to rivals and disappointed key customers, analysts said. 

 While Lucent had hoped to resolve its manufacturing and product development problems by mid-year, the woes lingered into the fourth quarter and will hurt next year's profits and sales as well. 

 Murray Hill, N.J.-based Lucent cited several reasons for the fourth-quarter shortfall. It established higher reserves to cover potential bad debts from loans made to upstart telephone companies; saw a 13 percent drop in sales of traditional telephone switching equipment; and experienced a 5 percent drop in sales of optical networking systems, including optical fiber. 

 Lucent's problems are company-specific and don't reflect the health of the rest of the equipment market, analysts said. 

 "We strongly believe weakness in optical systems sales is tied to lower demand for Lucent products, not current market conditions, which are robust for companies like Nortel Networks," ABN AMRO analyst Kenneth Leon wrote in a research report. 

 McGinn told analysts and reporters Wednesday that Lucent's problems were "fixable," but some investors were not convinced. 

 "He's been saying all year that they were going to fix the problems. But I just see things getting worse instead of better," said one portfolio manager who holds shares of Lucent. 

 If Lucent successfully delivers on its promises to reorganize its operations, cut costs and improves product delivery times, McGinn could win a pardon, some analysts said. 

 But the clock is running. 

 "I'm sure McGinn is capable of fixing it, but the question is will Wall Street give him the time? Five years ago, he'd be given the time. But in today's short-attention-span world, CEOs don't have the luxury of time," said independent telecommunications analyst Jeffrey Kagan. 

 Lucent's stock will likely remain depressed until the company provides guidance on its 2001 outlook, analysts said. The stock could see a jump by next spring as it nears the planned spin-off of its fast-growing microelectronics unit, which makes semiconductors and components, analysts said. 

 The microelectronics spin-off is expected to have a much stronger debut than Lucent's Avaya Inc. operation, which makes telephone networks for corporations. Avaya closed $13-1/16, down from its opening price of $22-7/8 on Oct. 2. 

 "Investors should not sell LU at these levels. The stock is likely to outperform from here as the microelectronics spinoff nears," Goldman analyst Mary Henry added. 

Document lba0000020010822dwab047q5
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Lucent Chairman McGinn faces pressure after warning. 

756 words
11 October 2000
20:12
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 11 (Reuters) - Lucent Technologies Inc.'s latest profit warning, its third this year, puts great pressure on its Chairman Rich McGinn to show fast progress in reviving the ailing telecommunications equipment maker or resign, analysts and investors said on Wednesday. 

 After the stock market closed on Tuesday, Lucent confirmed Wall Street's fears that it would miss its fourth-quarter profit targets. It said fourth-quarter profits would fall 25 to 29 percent and 2001 forecasts would be cut as well. 

 Lucent's stock plunged, hitting a level unseen since January 1998. The stock fell $9-7/8, or more than 31 percent, to $21-1/2 on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock, once a Wall Street darling, has skidded more than 70 percent this year. 

 Rumours swirled late last month that McGinn would be forced to resign if Lucent missed its fourth-quarter growth targets. After the reduced quarterly outlook, those rumours intensified. 

 "There's a lot of rumours going around. He's clearly at risk. I think a change (in management) would help the stock," said Robert W. Baird & Co. analyst Ted Moreau. 

 One analyst said the company recently hired executive recruiting firm Korn/Ferry International to find McGinn's replacement. Lucent declined to comment. Korn/Ferry could not be reached for comment. 

 "He's got to be out of there. I'm surprised it hasn't happened already. They're a mess. I think it's recoverable, but I think it will take a major management shake-up," said Christine Heckart, an analyst with communications consulting firm TeleChoice. 

 Lucent has been working to rebuild investor confidence, catch up to rivals in the booming optical networking industry and restructure its operations. 

 Bold changes are needed to realign Lucent, analysts said. 

 Lucent should cut 30-40 percent of its employees, get rid of several layers of middle management, and streamline its bureaucratic ways, Heckart said. 

 "People seem to forget that Lucent is AT&T. They did very little when they spun off (from AT&T) to change the culture. They got a new logo and a great marketing campaign, but they're as fat and bureaucratic as AT&T ever was," Heckart said. 

 Lucent's problems have been widespread. Lucent missed industry cues that its telecommunications customers would shift toward high-speed fiber optic products and away from traditional telephone switch networks. When it finally jumped on the optical boom, it already trailed rivals such as Canada's Nortel Networks Corp.. 

 Lucent had struggled to launch optical products, but in January it said it had been unable to manufacture the products fast enough to keep up with robust customer demand. It lost orders to rivals and disappointed key customers, analysts said. 

 While the company had hoped to resolve its manufacturing and product development problems earlier this year, the woes lingered into the fourth quarter and will hurt next year's profits and sales as well. 

 McGinn said the problems were "fixable," but some investors were not convinced. 

 "He's been saying all year that they were going to fix the problems. But I just see things getting worse instead of better," said one portfolio manager who holds shares of Lucent. 

 McGinn, who started his communications career in 1969 at Illinois Bell and spent about 18 years at Lucent's former parent AT&T, was too entrenched in the telephone industry culture to leap on the shift toward data and optical networking, analysts said. 

 Telephone companies, Internet service providers and large corporations have been clamouring for sophisticated equipment that can handle increasingly large volumes of data, voice and video traffic sparked by the boom in the Internet. 

 Lucent "needs to move from being a product and engineering company to a systems and solutions company, and be more market-driven - driven by what the customer wants," Moreau said. "From my perspective I think that some of these problems should have been addressed awhile ago," he said. 

 If Lucent successfully delivers on its promises to reorganize its operations, cut costs and improves product delivery times, McGinn could win a pardon, some analysts said. 

 But the clock is running. 

 "I'm sure McGinn is capable of fixing it, but the question is will Wall Street give him the time? Five years ago, he'd be given the time. But in today's short-attention-span world, CEOs don't have the luxury of time," said independent telecommunications analyst Jeffrey Kagan. 

Document lba0000020010822dwab047ga
?
 

 WestPoint Stevens Shares  Decline  16% On Second  Profit Warning  in Two Weeks 

 By Daniel Machalaba 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
447 words
11 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
B23
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WestPoint Stevens Inc. warned for the second time in two weeks that its profit wouldn't meet expectations, this time citing erosion of retail sales in the last week in September. 

 The latest warning, which sent the textile concern's stock down 16%, near a 52-week low, surprised some analysts because it came so soon after the previous preannouncement. In 4 p.m. New York Stock Exchange composite trading, WestPoint was down $1.75 at $8.88. 

 "It's preannouncement squared," said Pamela Singleton, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. "You'd think toward the end of the quarter the company would have a good read on results, but they hadn't factored in all of the slowdown." 

 Two weeks ago, WestPoint Stevens estimated third-quarter earnings would be about 65 cents a diluted share, considerably below the First Call/Thomson Financial consensus analysts' estimate of 75 cents a share. Sales, it said, would be flat. The company cited inventory adjustments at two big retailers and general sluggishness in the retail industry. 

 Yesterday, WestPoint Stevens took its third-quarter estimate down another notch, saying it now expects earnings of 55 cents to 60 cents a diluted share on a sales decline of 3%. In the year-earlier quarter, the company earned $38.1 million, or 67 cents a share, on revenue of $503.1 million. 

 Officials of WestPoint Stevens, a West Point, Ga., maker of bed linens, towels, blankets, comforters and accessories for bed and bath, said the disclosures reflect disappointing industry conditions. The company sells its consumer fashions largely to discount retailers and department stores. "We would have liked to make one disclosure, but business continued to deteriorate," WestPoint Stevens spokeswoman Lorraine Miller said. 

 Some analysts said the WestPoint Stevens disclosures are a sign of what to expect under new Securities and Exchange regulations regarding fair public disclosure of material information. The rules go into effect later this month, but already companies are reappraising their communications. "No one wants to be the first one to get their wrist slapped," said Merrill Lynch analyst Ms. Singleton. 

 Other analysts cite point-of-sale ordering and logistics-management systems that have compressed the supply chain between retailers and manufacturers. So when retail sales begin to decelerate, suppliers such as WestPoint Stevens are quick to feel the effects. 

 "There's none of this watching inventories creep up any more," said Kay Norwood, an analyst at Wachovia Corp.'s Wachovia Securities Inc. "You become so closely linked to the retailer that when they sneeze, you say, `God bless you.' " 

Document j000000020010807dwab00qan
?
 

 Theater Chain GC Files for Bankruptcy; Imax Issues  Profit Warning 

643 words
11 October 2000
15:21
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. -(Dow Jones)- First came an oversaturation of the market with huge "megaplex" movie theaters. But for many overextended theater chains, the painful sequel involves filing for bankruptcy. 

 GC Companies Inc. (GCX), parent of General Cinema, became the latest theater chain to file for bankruptcy protection, joining United Artists Theatre Circuit Inc., Edwards Theatres Circuit Inc. and Carmike Cinemas Inc. (CKE). Regal, the largest U.S. theater chain, is in serious trouble, and Loews Cineplex Entertainment Corp. and AMC Entertainment Inc. also are struggling. 

 Separately, Toronto-based Imax Corp. (IMX) said results will likely fall short of expectations for the third quarter and all of 2000. 

 Imax, known for its big-screen, three-dimensional movie technology and theaters, expects to report a small loss in the third quarter and full-year earnings of 60 cents to 70 cents a share. The mean estimates of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial were for earnings of 23 cents and $1.23 a share, respectively. 

 Imax blamed the projected shortfall on continuing decline in the financial strength of the North American theater industry and increased research and development spending on digital technologies. 

 Despite the industry's weakness, Imax said the its long-term outlook remains strong, driven by expansion into international markets and emerging digital business. Imax said international demand for its theaters was strong, resulting in contracts for 14 new theater systems during the quarter worth about $38 million, the highest level in two years. 

 In July, Imax said it would explore strategic options, including a possible sale. Imax said Wednesday the review continues but didn't elaborate. 

 GC plans to continue operations while it completes its restructuring effort, which includes plans to close 17 additional theaters with 103 screens in October. It has already closed 36 underperforming theaters with 264 screens in Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, North Carolina, Texas, Ohio, New Jersey, California and Washington. 

 In the mid-1990s, the theater industry began to undergo a radical transformation. Led by AMC (AEN), theater owners began to experiment with a new concept known as the megaplex -- gigantic complexes with as many as 30 screens at one location, all with stadium, or tiered, seating, in wide, comfortable chairs with clear sight lines. Though expensive to build -- the average cost is between $750,000 and $1 million per screen -- the complexes can generate big profits as long as competition is limited. 

 When the first few megaplexes generated huge ticket sales and 30% returns, the rest of the industry piled in, building the new complexes at a breakneck pace. But the industry built too many expensive megaplexes without moving quickly enough to close their older and smaller multiplexes, many of which are locked into long-term leases. 

 Indeed, GC's Florida, Georgia, Louisiana and Tennessee units all have filed for Chapter 7 liquidation proceedings. 

 GC said multimedia publisher Harcourt General Inc. (H) guaranteed some of its lease obligations. Harcourt, Chestnut Hill, Mass., expects to take a fourth-quarter charge of about $100 million, or $1.38 a share, related to GC's bankruptcy reorganization. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial expect Harcourt to earn $1.11 a share in the fourth quarter and $2.24 a share for the year. 

 GC will receive up to $45 million of debtor-in-possession financing to provide the company with resources to fund its operations during the proceedings. 

 GC named Chief Financial Officer G. Gail Edwards to the additional posts of president and chief operating officer to replace Richard A. Smith. Richard Smith and President and Chief Operating Officer Robert A. Smith resigned to avoid potential conflicts in implementing the reorganization, since both men also hold positions with Harcourt. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwab01lch
?
 

 Good ARM Results Aren't Valium For Chipmaker Investors 

Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
793 words
11 October 2000
11:47
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 By Fred Kapner 

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)- Strong third-quarter results from chip designer ARM Holdings PLC (ARMHY) Wednesday are a small bright spot but aren't valium for the investor neurosis surrounding the semiconductor industry, analysts said. 

 ARM topped forecasts with a doubling of third-quarter pretax profit to GBP8.8 million and a 68% rise in sales to GBP26.4 million. 

 ARM shares at 1043 GMT were up 9 pence to 695, bucking the market trend and in sharp contrast to the 21% drop Tuesday at U.S. chip designer Xilinx Inc. (XLNX) and a 27% drop in chip maker Altera Corp. (ALTR). 

 Nervous investors Tuesday dumped Xilinx and Altera shares, among many blue-chip tech stocks, after several analysts cut their ratings, but not their earnings estimates. 

 Analysts blamed their change of heart on what one said was "continued deterioration in the environment for general purpose semiconductor chips." 

 That outlook contrasted with International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) announcement Tuesday that it's making the largest capital investment in the company's history - $5 billion for semiconductor plants, including $2.5 billion for one in upstate New York. 

 "That shows the greater and greater competition for chips, but that adds to concerns about an eventual downturn," said Titus Menzies, an analyst at BNP Paribas. 

 The semiconductor industry association, however, doesn't see a downturn before late 2002, if then. 

 Analysts differentiate the companies according to the type of chip they're producing and whether they design and produce the chips or simply design them. 

 ARM is strictly a designer of the processing element of a chip. That's allowed it to rack up operating margins of 30% and to see royalty and licensing income rocket as customers turn to a specialist to for developing processors for next generation communications needs. 

 That distinguishes it from Intel Corp. (INTC), which designs and produces chips - mostly for the wobbling personal computer market. 

 Intel's profit warning two weeks ago sparked a wide-ranging sale of other chip shares, something analysts said was widely overdone, especially for European companies which aren't dependent on the PC market. 

 That's particularly true for STM Microelectronics NV (STM), which designs and produces chips for the communications and automotive industries, among others. 

 STM shares fell 7% Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange in the wake of the Xilinx and Altera downgrades and on another profit warning at Lucent Technologies Inc. (LU). 

 "It's just a reaction to the market, but there's no danger to STM," said Jean Danjou, an analyst at CSFB First Boston in London. 

 Similarly, in Europe, analysts say sell-offs in Philips Electronics NV (PHG) are overreactions. They are more wary of chipmaker Infineon Technologies AG (IFX), 71%-owned by Siemens AG (G.SIE), because it produces PC memory chips, known as DRAMs, some analysts said. 

 At 0945 GMT, Infineon was down 5.6% to EUR47.30. 

 Even for DRAMs, however, STMicroelectronics group vice president and chief economist Jean-Philippe Dauvin said worldwide market growth for that segment was around 55%. 

 Companies like ARM, which aren't saddled with costly manufacturing plants and the risk of high inventories, have largely avoided the bloodbath in the stock market, although their shares have come down sharply from springtime highs. 

 ARM Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Brooks Wednesday acknowledged that a long-term downturn in chips would have "some effect" on his company. But he said designers such as ARM had a very strong short-term outlook. ARM-based designs are part of the backbone for third-generation phones and for so-called "bluetooth" specifications, which allow varied electronics-laden devices - such as a phone and a refrigerator - to communicate. 

 Still, U.S. chip designer MIPS Technologies Inc. (MIPS), seen as a key rival to ARM, on Tuesday fell 4%; Rambus Inc. (RMBS), which makes technology for high-speed chip-to-chip connections, fell 9%. 

 The big day-to-day drops, however, need to be put in context of where the shares were a year ago. ARM, for example, was at 244 pence, and MIPS, now at $40, traded in the high teens. 

 Analysts said ARM's third-quarter figures were very good, but they maintained hold ratings. BNP Paribas's Menzies noted that ARM is trading at some 210 times estimated 2001 earnings per share. That compares with around 55 times for MIPS, 150 times for PMC Sierra Inc. (PMCS), 45 times for Rambus and 50 times for Xilinx. 

 "On fundamentals, ARM is fantastic," Menzies said. "On a valuation basis, the're way out in front of their peers." 

 -By Fred Kapner; Dow Jones Newswires; 44 20 7842 9283; fred.kapner@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010820dwab0022f
?
 

 Alcatel: On Track To Meet 3rd Quarter Profit, Rev Targets 

216 words
11 October 2000
10:05
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 PARIS -(Dow Jones)- French telecommunications equipment supplier Alcatel SA (ALA) Wednesday said it's unscathed by the difficulties hitting U.S. rival Lucent Technologies Inc. (LU) and is "well on track" to meet revenue and profit targets for its third quarter. 

 "Lucent's problem isn't an industry problem, it's their own problem," said a spokesman at Alcatel. 

 Lucent issued a profit warning late Tuesday, saying its earmings per share for the fourth quarter will be as much as 10 cents below analysts' expectations. 

 The warning prompted a sell-off in telecom equipment makers' shares. 

 At 0833 GMT, Alcatel shares had slid 7.0%, or EUR5.35, to EUR70.65. 

 Lucent said it experienced less-than-expected revenue and gross margins in its optical systems business and that a steeper-than-anticipated decline in circuit switching sales and margins also hit the bottom line. 

 Alcatel expects revenues of its optical business division to rise by more than 30% in the third quarter of this year from a year ago, the spokesman said. 

 Alcatel reports third-quarter results Oct. 31. 

 The spokesman said growth in Alcatel's overall revenues in the third quarter will exceed the 33% jump registered in the second quarter of this year. 

Document dji0000020010820dwab001zj
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Analysts See Lucent's Drop As Nortel's Gain 

1,352 words
11 October 2000
17:10
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 12:13 (Dow Jones) Nortel is down 5.25% in Toronto, reflecting a widespread sell-off in network equipment vendor stocks after Lucent issued its latest earnings warning. However, analysts from Salomon, TD Securities and Scotia Capital Markets, among others, maintained their buy ratings on Nortel's stock, arguing that Lucent's misfortune demonstrates gains that Nortel is making on Lucent in the areas of optical, wireless and data networking equipment. (BED). 

 11:57 (Dow Jones) Next short-term resistance to Nymex nearby crude oil is $34.40. The contract, now at $33.30, is due to test the $40 handle by the end of this year. That means a test, in short order, of the high for the nearly two-year-old bull market, $37.80 recorded on Sep. 20. Look for resistance at $35.71 and $37.06 on the way up. (SC) 

 11:39 (Dow Jones) Treasuries not performing as well as in last stock price decline in '98. Chalk it up to inflation worries. In '98 the price of a barrel of oil was $12-14 a barrel. (GK) 

 11:31 (Dow Jones) Given market sell off, no surprise Inktomi (INKT) shares are down 9%. But part of the pressure on Inktomi is because rival CacheFlow (CFLO) announced it would acquire Entera, a private software company, that could beef up its competitive position. Although deal could create uncertainty for Inktomi shares, Merrill's Henry Blodget downplayed significance, saying merger will take time to bear fruit and its impact on Inktomi's business will be slight. (MLP) 

 11:27 (Dow Jones) Veteran trader says reason Nasdaq down over 100 points and bonds only getting slight flight to quality bid is that investors not yet convinced "breakout" has taken place in Nasdaq. Trader speculates move through 2950 in cash Nasdaq necessary to fuel panic, and therefore movement out of stocks and into Tsys. (CMN) 

 11:22 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps are extending losses and traders aren't sure if support at 1368-1367 will hold. "What we've been doing is testing support, bouncing off there and then taking it out," one trader says. "I don't think it's much different." He says once buying from earlier dried up, it helped to start the sell-off. (DMC) 

 11:14 (Dow Jones) Stocks deteriorate further, Nasdaq in bear market, if not in duration then in size of loss. But still no dramatic decline on dramatic volume, which might erase bullish sentiment and pave way for rally. If Nasdaq Comp. breaks May low of 3042, the breakout level from Oct. 29, 1999, which was 2900, could be next stop. (TG) 

 11:11 (Dow Jones) Amid a sea of red on quote screens, Knight Trading's (NITE) stock is bucking the trend as it continues to ride high on speculation it may be a takeover target following Deutsche's bid Tuesday for National Discount Broker (NDB). (LF) 

 11:02 (Dow Jones) Lower trade now dominates Dec. Nasdaq after contract couldn't hold early gains. Pit traders say it's unlikely to change in the near-term. Despite Yahoo! (YHOO) lifting the market in early electronic trade late Tues., Dec. Nasdaq still fell. "The problem is we're looking at companies like Yahoo, like Lucent to be the leaders in the years to come and they're acting poorly," one pit trader says. Market will probably still be impacted by rotation out of tech for the time being. (DMC) 

 11:00 (Dow Jones) USD declining across the board as selling of U.S. stocks picks up again. USD/JPY at intraday low of 107.56, GBP/USD reaches high of 1.4648, EUR/USD rising to 0.8733. (RTB) 

 10:53 (Dow Jones) General Electric (GE) showed again why it's one of the most respected companies on the planet. Strong showing in businesses such as NBC and power systems allowed the conglomerate to shake off any impact from the weak euro and hit analysts' third-quarter estimate of 32 cents a share. Given that shares have hung in there better than most during market fall, no big surprise stock is off 3.6%. (CCW) 

 10:46 (Dow Jones) New stock index provides pre-market call for Nasdaq 100 stocks, including Microsoft (MSFT), Intel (INTC) and Starbucks (SBUX). Index starts trading Thursday and will track prices from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. (LF) 

 10:33 (Dow Jones) Put/call ratios shape up better in intraday trading, hinting at potential for a botttom, on a technical basis, traders say. From technician's standpoint, key will be washout volume totals in technology bellwethers, such as Intel (INTC). (ROB) 

 10:29 (Dow Jones) PacifiCare Health Systems' (PHSY) third-quarter warning appears to bode poorly for the company well beyond the next several months. UBS Warburg analyst Matthew Ripperger has chopped his 2001 EPS estimate for the HMO to 75 cents from $8.55, citing a deterioration in the amount of money the company will likely make from Medicare. PacifiCare shares lost more than half their value Wednesday morning. (RS) 

 10:23 (Dow Jones) Salomon says Hindery resignation at Global Crossing (GBLX) no big surprise given he was brought in to maximize value of Global Center, which he did. Brokerage firm says remaining management team stronger than investors may realize. (TG) 

 10:18 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is firmer, with the market trading in "fast" market conditions. Floor traders say "everyone" is buying as bulls try to bargain hunt. "We've had 12 hours to digest the news," one trader says. "And really, we worked Lucent in late yesterday and Yahoo! and Motorola were about as expected. We closed yesterday with no premium (to cash) so it's natural to see at least that put in." (DMC) 

 10:16 (Dow Jones) A consistent if unspectacular grind lower, especially for the Nasdaq index, represents one of the less pleasant options of stock market observers. (see N/POV for full story). (LF) 

 10:14 (Dow Jones) Volatile morning in corporates, with market players still spooked by profit warnings. Telecom sector moved out 7-10 bp wider and now just starting to inch away from wides, traders say. (SPC) 

 10:10 (Dow Jones) August wholesale inventories up a healthy 0.6%. Sales up a smaller 0.3% increase. The ever-important inventory-to-sales ratio, however, held steady at 1.30 months. Not much new here for data mavens. (JN) 

 10:06 (Dow Jones) Alaska Air Group (ALK) 3Q profit warning is 'company-specific' and has few industrywide implications, analysts say. Higher income tax rate was 'the big thing', and the carrier is still recovering from bad publicity from the crash, they say. Alaska expects to earn 50c-70c/shr, below consensus estimate of $1.26/shr. Higher tax is seen reducing profits by 25c-30c. (SS) 

 10:01 (Dow Jones) "It's the stock market stupid," says Moody's. "Al Gore's standing in the polls has faded alongside the US equity market's latest slide. If stocks continue to move lower, the presidential election is Governor Bush's to lose." (JC) 

 9:58 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps are paring losses in early trade as Dec. Nasdaq tries to hold new gains. Support for Dec. S&Ps near session low, with resistance at 1414, according to Wellenreiter Investment News. Dec. S&Ps are 6.88% under their 50-day moving average and anything under 5% is considered oversold. (DMC) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Corning (GLW) off 4%. Can't be helped by Lucent's revelation that its 4Q optical revenue was off 5%, and margins below views. Of course, nothing in technology is working today. (TG) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Speaking of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE), Competitive Enterprise Institute President Fred Smith says, "The first target of antitrust regulators should be to break up these artificial monstrosities." (JC) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwab03uer
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Inktomi Takes Double Hit - Market And Merger 

1,167 words
11 October 2000
16:30
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 11:31 (Dow Jones) Given market sell off, no surprise Inktomi (INKT) shares are down 9%. But part of the pressure on Inktomi is because rival CacheFlow (CFLO) announced it would acquire Entera, a private software company, that could beef up its competitive position. Although deal could create uncertainty for Inktomi shares, Merrill's Henry Blodget downplayed significance, saying merger will take time to bear fruit and its impact on Inktomi's business will be slight. (MLP) 

 11:27 (Dow Jones) Veteran trader says reason Nasdaq down over 100 points and bonds only getting slight flight to quality bid is that investors not yet convinced "breakout" has taken place in Nasdaq. Trader speculates move through 2950 in cash Nasdaq necessary to fuel panic, and therefore movement out of stocks and into Tsys. (CMN) 

 11:22 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps are extending losses and traders aren't sure if support at 1368-1367 will hold. "What we've been doing is testing support, bouncing off there and then taking it out," one trader says. "I don't think it's much different." He says once buying from earlier dried up, it helped to start the sell-off. (DMC) 

 11:14 (Dow Jones) Stocks deteriorate further, Nasdaq in bear market, if not in duration then in size of loss. But still no dramatic decline on dramatic volume, which might erase bullish sentiment and pave way for rally. If Nasdaq Comp. breaks May low of 3042, the breakout level from Oct. 29, 1999, which was 2900, could be next stop. (TG) 

 11:11 (Dow Jones) Amid a sea of red on quote screens, Knight Trading's (NITE) stock is bucking the trend as it continues to ride high on speculation it may be a takeover target following Deutsche's bid Tuesday for National Discount Broker (NDB). (LF) 

 11:02 (Dow Jones) Lower trade now dominates Dec. Nasdaq after contract couldn't hold early gains. Pit traders say it's unlikely to change in the near-term. Despite Yahoo! (YHOO) lifting the market in early electronic trade late Tues., Dec. Nasdaq still fell. "The problem is we're looking at companies like Yahoo, like Lucent to be the leaders in the years to come and they're acting poorly," one pit trader says. Market will probably still be impacted by rotation out of tech for the time being. (DMC) 

 11:00 (Dow Jones) USD declining across the board as selling of U.S. stocks picks up again. USD/JPY at intraday low of 107.56, GBP/USD reaches high of 1.4648, EUR/USD rising to 0.8733. (RTB) 

 10:53 (Dow Jones) General Electric (GE) showed again why it's one of the most respected companies on the planet. Strong showing in businesses such as NBC and power systems allowed the conglomerate to shake off any impact from the weak euro and hit analysts' third-quarter estimate of 32 cents a share. Given that shares have hung in there better than most during market fall, no big surprise stock is off 3.6%. (CCW) 

 10:46 (Dow Jones) New stock index provides pre-market call for Nasdaq 100 stocks, including Microsoft (MSFT), Intel (INTC) and Starbucks (SBUX). Index starts trading Thursday and will track prices from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. (LF) 

 10:33 (Dow Jones) Put/call ratios shape up better in intraday trading, hinting at potential for a botttom, on a technical basis, traders say. From technician's standpoint, key will be washout volume totals in technology bellwethers, such as Intel (INTC). (ROB) 

 10:29 (Dow Jones) PacifiCare Health Systems' (PHSY) third-quarter warning appears to bode poorly for the company well beyond the next several months. UBS Warburg analyst Matthew Ripperger has chopped his 2001 EPS estimate for the HMO to 75 cents from $8.55, citing a deterioration in the amount of money the company will likely make from Medicare. PacifiCare shares lost more than half their value Wednesday morning. (RS) 

 10:23 (Dow Jones) Salomon says Hindery resignation at Global Crossing (GBLX) no big surprise given he was brought in to maximize value of Global Center, which he did. Brokerage firm says remaining management team stronger than investors may realize. (TG) 

 10:18 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is firmer, with the market trading in "fast" market conditions. Floor traders say "everyone" is buying as bulls try to bargain hunt. "We've had 12 hours to digest the news," one trader says. "And really, we worked Lucent in late yesterday and Yahoo! and Motorola were about as expected. We closed yesterday with no premium (to cash) so it's natural to see at least that put in." (DMC) 

 10:16 (Dow Jones) A consistent if unspectacular grind lower, especially for the Nasdaq index, represents one of the less pleasant options of stock market observers. (see N/POV for full story). (LF) 

 10:14 (Dow Jones) Volatile morning in corporates, with market players still spooked by profit warnings. Telecom sector moved out 7-10 bp wider and now just starting to inch away from wides, traders say. (SPC) 

 10:10 (Dow Jones) August wholesale inventories up a healthy 0.6%. Sales up a smaller 0.3% increase. The ever-important inventory-to-sales ratio, however, held steady at 1.30 months. Not much new here for data mavens. (JN) 

 10:06 (Dow Jones) Alaska Air Group (ALK) 3Q profit warning is 'company-specific' and has few industrywide implications, analysts say. Higher income tax rate was 'the big thing', and the carrier is still recovering from bad publicity from the crash, they say. Alaska expects to earn 50c-70c/shr, below consensus estimate of $1.26/shr. Higher tax is seen reducing profits by 25c-30c. (SS) 

 10:01 (Dow Jones) "It's the stock market stupid," says Moody's. "Al Gore's standing in the polls has faded alongside the US equity market's latest slide. If stocks continue to move lower, the presidential election is Governor Bush's to lose." (JC) 

 9:58 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps are paring losses in early trade as Dec. Nasdaq tries to hold new gains. Support for Dec. S&Ps near session low, with resistance at 1414, according to Wellenreiter Investment News. Dec. S&Ps are 6.88% under their 50-day moving average and anything under 5% is considered oversold. (DMC) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Corning (GLW) off 4%. Can't be helped by Lucent's revelation that its 4Q optical revenue was off 5%, and margins below views. Of course, nothing in technology is working today. (TG) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Speaking of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE), Competitive Enterprise Institute President Fred Smith says, "The first target of antitrust regulators should be to break up these artificial monstrosities." (JC) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwab03uby
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Knight Trading Still Seen As Buy Candidate 

1,277 words
11 October 2000
16:09
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 11:11 (Dow Jones) Amid a sea of red on quote screens, Knight Trading's (NITE) stock is bucking the trend as it continues to ride high on speculation it may be a takeover target following Deutsche's bid Tuesday for National Discount Broker (NDB). (LF) 

 11:02 (Dow Jones) Lower trade now dominates Dec. Nasdaq after contract couldn't hold early gains. Pit traders say it's unlikely to change in the near-term. Despite Yahoo! (YHOO) lifting the market in early electronic trade late Tues., Dec. Nasdaq still fell. "The problem is we're looking at companies like Yahoo, like Lucent to be the leaders in the years to come and they're acting poorly," one pit trader says. Market will probably still be impacted by rotation out of tech for the time being. (DMC) 

 11:00 (Dow Jones) USD declining across the board as selling of U.S. stocks picks up again. USD/JPY at intraday low of 107.56, GBP/USD reaches high of 1.4648, EUR/USD rising to 0.8733. (RTB) 

 10:53 (Dow Jones) General Electric (GE) showed again why it's one of the most respected companies on the planet. Strong showing in businesses such as NBC and power systems allowed the conglomerate to shake off any impact from the weak euro and hit analysts' third-quarter estimate of 32 cents a share. Given that shares have hung in there better than most during market fall, no big surprise stock is off 3.6%. (CCW) 

 10:46 (Dow Jones) New stock index provides pre-market call for Nasdaq 100 stocks, including Microsoft (MSFT), Intel (INTC) and Starbucks (SBUX). Index starts trading Thursday and will track prices from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. (LF) 

 10:33 (Dow Jones) Put/call ratios shape up better in intraday trading, hinting at potential for a botttom, on a technical basis, traders say. From technician's standpoint, key will be washout volume totals in technology bellwethers, such as Intel (INTC). (ROB) 

 10:29 (Dow Jones) PacifiCare Health Systems' (PHSY) third-quarter warning appears to bode poorly for the company well beyond the next several months. UBS Warburg analyst Matthew Ripperger has chopped his 2001 EPS estimate for the HMO to 75 cents from $8.55, citing a deterioration in the amount of money the company will likely make from Medicare. PacifiCare shares lost more than half their value Wednesday morning. (RS) 

 10:23 (Dow Jones) Salomon says Hindery resignation at Global Crossing (GBLX) no big surprise given he was brought in to maximize value of Global Center, which he did. Brokerage firm says remaining management team stronger than investors may realize. (TG) 

 10:18 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is firmer, with the market trading in "fast" market conditions. Floor traders say "everyone" is buying as bulls try to bargain hunt. "We've had 12 hours to digest the news," one trader says. "And really, we worked Lucent in late yesterday and Yahoo! and Motorola were about as expected. We closed yesterday with no premium (to cash) so it's natural to see at least that put in." (DMC) 

 10:16 (Dow Jones) A consistent if unspectacular grind lower, especially for the Nasdaq index, represents one of the less pleasant options of stock market observers. (see N/POV for full story). (LF) 

 10:14 (Dow Jones) Volatile morning in corporates, with market players still spooked by profit warnings. Telecom sector moved out 7-10 bp wider and now just starting to inch away from wides, traders say. (SPC) 

 10:10 (Dow Jones) August wholesale inventories up a healthy 0.6%. Sales up a smaller 0.3% increase. The ever-important inventory-to-sales ratio, however, held steady at 1.30 months. Not much new here for data mavens. (JN) 

 10:06 (Dow Jones) Alaska Air Group (ALK) 3Q profit warning is 'company-specific' and has few industrywide implications, analysts say. Higher income tax rate was 'the big thing', and the carrier is still recovering from bad publicity from the crash, they say. Alaska expects to earn 50c-70c/shr, below consensus estimate of $1.26/shr. Higher tax is seen reducing profits by 25c-30c. (SS) 

 10:01 (Dow Jones) "It's the stock market stupid," says Moody's. "Al Gore's standing in the polls has faded alongside the US equity market's latest slide. If stocks continue to move lower, the presidential election is Governor Bush's to lose." (JC) 

 9:58 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps are paring losses in early trade as Dec. Nasdaq tries to hold new gains. Support for Dec. S&Ps near session low, with resistance at 1414, according to Wellenreiter Investment News. Dec. S&Ps are 6.88% under their 50-day moving average and anything under 5% is considered oversold. (DMC) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Corning (GLW) off 4%. Can't be helped by Lucent's revelation that its 4Q optical revenue was off 5%, and margins below views. Of course, nothing in technology is working today. (TG) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Speaking of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE), Competitive Enterprise Institute President Fred Smith says, "The first target of antitrust regulators should be to break up these artificial monstrosities." (JC) 

 9:44 (Dow Jones) Remember that well-publicized release by the Clinton Administration of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve? It's not working. Banc of America says OPEC feels market is well supplied and it won't increase production. Tension in Middle East adds uncertainty to tight market, and data suggests higher prices into next year. (TG) 

 9:40 (Dow Jones) Five year Treasury yield fell briefly to lowest level in over a year, to 5.783%, lowest since Sept. 1999, says bond strategist in New York. Down about 3 bps on session. Previous lowest yield this calendar year was on Sept. 29, at 5.803% (JNP/SC) 

 9:38 (Dow Jones) Nordstrom (JWN) warns on 3Q, jolting investors who last week had popped the stock on news of nearly 8% jump in Sept. same-store sales. Reality: JWN still shifts clothes, but it remains undecided on its target base - younger is better? - and recent exec shuffles are a strain. Markdowns, expenses cited in lowering 3Q operating results by 4-7 cents, and $41M To $43M in charges expected. (GC) 

 9:34 (Dow Jones) Stocks down big early. Nasdaq needs to find support around these levels to calm antsy technicians. There is the potential for large, early blowoff to get reversed later in the session. DJIA off 41, Nasdaq drops 89, and S&P 500 loses 11. (TG) 

 9:25 (Dow Jones) It looks like the last analyst holdouts on Lucent (LU) are jumping ship. At least six brokerage firms cut ratings. Interestingly, even after the first 4Q warning, all six still had stock at buy or strong buy. (TG) 

 9:22 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg analyst Diane Glossman said Deutsche Bank AG's $49 per share bid for National Discount Brokers (NDB), made public Tuesday, was expensive, based on UBS's calculations of the multiples applied to NDB's market making and e-brokerage revenue streams. (CWM) 

 9:18 (Dow Jones) The IPO market continues to worsen. Only three of the six IPOs expected to price late Tuesday did, and none of the three priced at the high end of estimates - a sign that institutions are skeptical of new issues, forcing underwriters to price their deals to sell. (RJH) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwab03uar
?
 

 MARKET TALK: GE Delivers Again, But Shares Ease 

1,099 words
11 October 2000
15:52
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 10:53 (Dow Jones) General Electric (GE) showed again why it's one of the most respected companies on the planet. Strong showing in businesses such as NBC and power systems allowed the conglomerate to shake off any impact from the weak euro and hit analysts' third-quarter estimate of 32 cents a share. Given that shares have hung in there better than most during market fall, no big surprise stock is off 3.6%. (CCW) 

 10:46 (Dow Jones) New stock index provides pre-market call for Nasdaq 100 stocks, including Microsoft (MSFT), Intel (INTC) and Starbucks (SBUX). Index starts trading Thursday and will track prices from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. (LF) 

 10:33 (Dow Jones) Put/call ratios shape up better in intraday trading, hinting at potential for a botttom, on a technical basis, traders say. From technician's standpoint, key will be washout volume totals in technology bellwethers, such as Intel (INTC). (ROB) 

 10:29 (Dow Jones) PacifiCare Health Systems' (PHSY) third-quarter warning appears to bode poorly for the company well beyond the next several months. UBS Warburg analyst Matthew Ripperger has chopped his 2001 EPS estimate for the HMO to 75 cents from $8.55, citing a deterioration in the amount of money the company will likely make from Medicare. PacifiCare shares lost more than half their value Wednesday morning. (RS) 

 10:23 (Dow Jones) Salomon says Hindery resignation at Global Crossing (GBLX) no big surprise given he was brought in to maximize value of Global Center, which he did. Brokerage firm says remaining management team stronger than investors may realize. (TG) 

 10:18 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is firmer, with the market trading in "fast" market conditions. Floor traders say "everyone" is buying as bulls try to bargain hunt. "We've had 12 hours to digest the news," one trader says. "And really, we worked Lucent in late yesterday and Yahoo! and Motorola were about as expected. We closed yesterday with no premium (to cash) so it's natural to see at least that put in." (DMC) 

 10:16 (Dow Jones) A consistent if unspectacular grind lower, especially for the Nasdaq index, represents one of the less pleasant options of stock market observers. (see N/POV for full story). (LF) 

 10:14 (Dow Jones) Volatile morning in corporates, with market players still spooked by profit warnings. Telecom sector moved out 7-10 bp wider and now just starting to inch away from wides, traders say. (SPC) 

 10:10 (Dow Jones) August wholesale inventories up a healthy 0.6%. Sales up a smaller 0.3% increase. The ever-important inventory-to-sales ratio, however, held steady at 1.30 months. Not much new here for data mavens. (JN) 

 10:06 (Dow Jones) Alaska Air Group (ALK) 3Q profit warning is 'company-specific' and has few industrywide implications, analysts say. Higher income tax rate was 'the big thing', and the carrier is still recovering from bad publicity from the crash, they say. Alaska expects to earn 50c-70c/shr, below consensus estimate of $1.26/shr. Higher tax is seen reducing profits by 25c-30c. (SS) 

 10:01 (Dow Jones) "It's the stock market stupid," says Moody's. "Al Gore's standing in the polls has faded alongside the US equity market's latest slide. If stocks continue to move lower, the presidential election is Governor Bush's to lose." (JC) 

 9:58 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps are paring losses in early trade as Dec. Nasdaq tries to hold new gains. Support for Dec. S&Ps near session low, with resistance at 1414, according to Wellenreiter Investment News. Dec. S&Ps are 6.88% under their 50-day moving average and anything under 5% is considered oversold. (DMC) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Corning (GLW) off 4%. Can't be helped by Lucent's revelation that its 4Q optical revenue was off 5%, and margins below views. Of course, nothing in technology is working today. (TG) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Speaking of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE), Competitive Enterprise Institute President Fred Smith says, "The first target of antitrust regulators should be to break up these artificial monstrosities." (JC) 

 9:44 (Dow Jones) Remember that well-publicized release by the Clinton Administration of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve? It's not working. Banc of America says OPEC feels market is well supplied and it won't increase production. Tension in Middle East adds uncertainty to tight market, and data suggests higher prices into next year. (TG) 

 9:40 (Dow Jones) Five year Treasury yield fell briefly to lowest level in over a year, to 5.783%, lowest since Sept. 1999, says bond strategist in New York. Down about 3 bps on session. Previous lowest yield this calendar year was on Sept. 29, at 5.803% (JNP/SC) 

 9:38 (Dow Jones) Nordstrom (JWN) warns on 3Q, jolting investors who last week had popped the stock on news of nearly 8% jump in Sept. same-store sales. Reality: JWN still shifts clothes, but it remains undecided on its target base - younger is better? - and recent exec shuffles are a strain. Markdowns, expenses cited in lowering 3Q operating results by 4-7 cents, and $41M To $43M in charges expected. (GC) 

 9:34 (Dow Jones) Stocks down big early. Nasdaq needs to find support around these levels to calm antsy technicians. There is the potential for large, early blowoff to get reversed later in the session. DJIA off 41, Nasdaq drops 89, and S&P 500 loses 11. (TG) 

 9:25 (Dow Jones) It looks like the last analyst holdouts on Lucent (LU) are jumping ship. At least six brokerage firms cut ratings. Interestingly, even after the first 4Q warning, all six still had stock at buy or strong buy. (TG) 

 9:22 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg analyst Diane Glossman said Deutsche Bank AG's $49 per share bid for National Discount Brokers (NDB), made public Tuesday, was expensive, based on UBS's calculations of the multiples applied to NDB's market making and e-brokerage revenue streams. (CWM) 

 9:18 (Dow Jones) The IPO market continues to worsen. Only three of the six IPOs expected to price late Tuesday did, and none of the three priced at the high end of estimates - a sign that institutions are skeptical of new issues, forcing underwriters to price their deals to sell. (RJH) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwab03u90
?
 

 MARKET TALK: New Pre-Open Index For Nasdaq 100 

1,024 words
11 October 2000
15:45
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 10:46 (Dow Jones) New stock index provides pre-market call for Nasdaq 100 stocks, including Microsoft (MSFT), Intel (INTC) and Starbucks (SBUX). Index starts trading Thursday and will track prices from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. (LF) 

 10:33 (Dow Jones) Put/call ratios shape up better in intraday trading, hinting at potential for a botttom, on a technical basis, traders say. From technician's standpoint, key will be washout volume totals in technology bellwethers, such as Intel (INTC). (ROB) 

 10:29 (Dow Jones) PacifiCare Health Systems' (PHSY) third-quarter warning appears to bode poorly for the company well beyond the next several months. UBS Warburg analyst Matthew Ripperger has chopped his 2001 EPS estimate for the HMO to 75 cents from $8.55, citing a deterioration in the amount of money the company will likely make from Medicare. PacifiCare shares lost more than half their value Wednesday morning. (RS) 

 10:23 (Dow Jones) Salomon says Hindery resignation at Global Crossing (GBLX) no big surprise given he was brought in to maximize value of Global Center, which he did. Brokerage firm says remaining management team stronger than investors may realize. (TG) 

 10:18 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is firmer, with the market trading in "fast" market conditions. Floor traders say "everyone" is buying as bulls try to bargain hunt. "We've had 12 hours to digest the news," one trader says. "And really, we worked Lucent in late yesterday and Yahoo! and Motorola were about as expected. We closed yesterday with no premium (to cash) so it's natural to see at least that put in." (DMC) 

 10:16 (Dow Jones) A consistent if unspectacular grind lower, especially for the Nasdaq index, represents one of the less pleasant options of stock market observers. (see N/POV for full story). (LF) 

 10:14 (Dow Jones) Volatile morning in corporates, with market players still spooked by profit warnings. Telecom sector moved out 7-10 bp wider and now just starting to inch away from wides, traders say. (SPC) 

 10:10 (Dow Jones) August wholesale inventories up a healthy 0.6%. Sales up a smaller 0.3% increase. The ever-important inventory-to-sales ratio, however, held steady at 1.30 months. Not much new here for data mavens. (JN) 

 10:06 (Dow Jones) Alaska Air Group (ALK) 3Q profit warning is 'company-specific' and has few industrywide implications, analysts say. Higher income tax rate was 'the big thing', and the carrier is still recovering from bad publicity from the crash, they say. Alaska expects to earn 50c-70c/shr, below consensus estimate of $1.26/shr. Higher tax is seen reducing profits by 25c-30c. (SS) 

 10:01 (Dow Jones) "It's the stock market stupid," says Moody's. "Al Gore's standing in the polls has faded alongside the US equity market's latest slide. If stocks continue to move lower, the presidential election is Governor Bush's to lose." (JC) 

 9:58 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps are paring losses in early trade as Dec. Nasdaq tries to hold new gains. Support for Dec. S&Ps near session low, with resistance at 1414, according to Wellenreiter Investment News. Dec. S&Ps are 6.88% under their 50-day moving average and anything under 5% is considered oversold. (DMC) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Corning (GLW) off 4%. Can't be helped by Lucent's revelation that its 4Q optical revenue was off 5%, and margins below views. Of course, nothing in technology is working today. (TG) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Speaking of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE), Competitive Enterprise Institute President Fred Smith says, "The first target of antitrust regulators should be to break up these artificial monstrosities." (JC) 

 9:44 (Dow Jones) Remember that well-publicized release by the Clinton Administration of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve? It's not working. Banc of America says OPEC feels market is well supplied and it won't increase production. Tension in Middle East adds uncertainty to tight market, and data suggests higher prices into next year. (TG) 

 9:40 (Dow Jones) Five year Treasury yield fell briefly to lowest level in over a year, to 5.783%, lowest since Sept. 1999, says bond strategist in New York. Down about 3 bps on session. Previous lowest yield this calendar year was on Sept. 29, at 5.803% (JNP/SC) 

 9:38 (Dow Jones) Nordstrom (JWN) warns on 3Q, jolting investors who last week had popped the stock on news of nearly 8% jump in Sept. same-store sales. Reality: JWN still shifts clothes, but it remains undecided on its target base - younger is better? - and recent exec shuffles are a strain. Markdowns, expenses cited in lowering 3Q operating results by 4-7 cents, and $41M To $43M in charges expected. (GC) 

 9:34 (Dow Jones) Stocks down big early. Nasdaq needs to find support around these levels to calm antsy technicians. There is the potential for large, early blowoff to get reversed later in the session. DJIA off 41, Nasdaq drops 89, and S&P 500 loses 11. (TG) 

 9:25 (Dow Jones) It looks like the last analyst holdouts on Lucent (LU) are jumping ship. At least six brokerage firms cut ratings. Interestingly, even after the first 4Q warning, all six still had stock at buy or strong buy. (TG) 

 9:22 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg analyst Diane Glossman said Deutsche Bank AG's $49 per share bid for National Discount Brokers (NDB), made public Tuesday, was expensive, based on UBS's calculations of the multiples applied to NDB's market making and e-brokerage revenue streams. (CWM) 

 9:18 (Dow Jones) The IPO market continues to worsen. Only three of the six IPOs expected to price late Tuesday did, and none of the three priced at the high end of estimates - a sign that institutions are skeptical of new issues, forcing underwriters to price their deals to sell. (RJH) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwab03u87
?
 

 MARKET TALK: PacifiCare Warning Not A Short-Term Miss 

1,152 words
11 October 2000
15:27
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 10:29 (Dow Jones) PacifiCare Health Systems' (PHSY) third-quarter warning appears to bode poorly for the company well beyond the next several months. UBS Warburg analyst Matthew Ripperger has chopped his 2001 EPS estimate for the HMO to 75 cents from $8.55, citing a deterioration in the amount of money the company will likely make from Medicare. PacifiCare shares lost more than half their value Wednesday morning. (RS) 

 10:23 (Dow Jones) Salomon says Hindery resignation at Global Crossing (GBLX) no big surprise given he was brought in to maximize value of Global Center, which he did. Brokerage firm says remaining management team stronger than investors may realize. (TG) 

 10:18 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is firmer, with the market trading in "fast" market conditions. Floor traders say "everyone" is buying as bulls try to bargain hunt. "We've had 12 hours to digest the news," one trader says. "And really, we worked Lucent in late yesterday and Yahoo! and Motorola were about as expected. We closed yesterday with no premium (to cash) so it's natural to see at least that put in." (DMC) 

 10:16 (Dow Jones) A consistent if unspectacular grind lower, especially for the Nasdaq index, represents one of the less pleasant options of stock market observers. (see N/POV for full story). (LF) 

 10:14 (Dow Jones) Volatile morning in corporates, with market players still spooked by profit warnings. Telecom sector moved out 7-10 bp wider and now just starting to inch away from wides, traders say. (SPC) 

 10:10 (Dow Jones) August wholesale inventories up a healthy 0.6%. Sales up a smaller 0.3% increase. The ever-important inventory-to-sales ratio, however, held steady at 1.30 months. Not much new here for data mavens. (JN) 

 10:06 (Dow Jones) Alaska Air Group (ALK) 3Q profit warning is 'company-specific' and has few industrywide implications, analysts say. Higher income tax rate was 'the big thing', and the carrier is still recovering from bad publicity from the crash, they say. Alaska expects to earn 50c-70c/shr, below consensus estimate of $1.26/shr. Higher tax is seen reducing profits by 25c-30c. (SS) 

 10:01 (Dow Jones) "It's the stock market stupid," says Moody's. "Al Gore's standing in the polls has faded alongside the US equity market's latest slide. If stocks continue to move lower, the presidential election is Governor Bush's to lose." (JC) 

 9:58 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps are paring losses in early trade as Dec. Nasdaq tries to hold new gains. Support for Dec. S&Ps near session low, with resistance at 1414, according to Wellenreiter Investment News. Dec. S&Ps are 6.88% under their 50-day moving average and anything under 5% is considered oversold. (DMC) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Corning (GLW) off 4%. Can't be helped by Lucent's revelation that its 4Q optical revenue was off 5%, and margins below views. Of course, nothing in technology is working today. (TG) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Speaking of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE), Competitive Enterprise Institute President Fred Smith says, "The first target of antitrust regulators should be to break up these artificial monstrosities." (JC) 

 9:44 (Dow Jones) Remember that well-publicized release by the Clinton Administration of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve? It's not working. Banc of America says OPEC feels market is well supplied and it won't increase production. Tension in Middle East adds uncertainty to tight market, and data suggests higher prices into next year. (TG) 

 9:40 (Dow Jones) Five year Treasury yield fell briefly to lowest level in over a year, to 5.783%, lowest since Sept. 1999, says bond strategist in New York. Down about 3 bps on session. Previous lowest yield this calendar year was on Sept. 29, at 5.803% (JNP/SC) 

 9:38 (Dow Jones) Nordstrom (JWN) warns on 3Q, jolting investors who last week had popped the stock on news of nearly 8% jump in Sept. same-store sales. Reality: JWN still shifts clothes, but it remains undecided on its target base - younger is better? - and recent exec shuffles are a strain. Markdowns, expenses cited in lowering 3Q operating results by 4-7 cents, and $41M To $43M in charges expected. (GC) 

 9:34 (Dow Jones) Stocks down big early. Nasdaq needs to find support around these levels to calm antsy technicians. There is the potential for large, early blowoff to get reversed later in the session. DJIA off 41, Nasdaq drops 89, and S&P 500 loses 11. (TG) 

 9:25 (Dow Jones) It looks like the last analyst holdouts on Lucent (LU) are jumping ship. At least six brokerage firms cut ratings. Interestingly, even after the first 4Q warning, all six still had stock at buy or strong buy. (TG) 

 9:22 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg analyst Diane Glossman said Deutsche Bank AG's $49 per share bid for National Discount Brokers (NDB), made public Tuesday, was expensive, based on UBS's calculations of the multiples applied to NDB's market making and e-brokerage revenue streams. (CWM) 

 9:18 (Dow Jones) The IPO market continues to worsen. Only three of the six IPOs expected to price late Tuesday did, and none of the three priced at the high end of estimates - a sign that institutions are skeptical of new issues, forcing underwriters to price their deals to sell. (RJH) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Motorola (MOT) slashed fourth quarter earnings per share expectations by 10 cents and reduced full-year 2001 earnings per share estimates by as much as 24 cents a share. The company reported third quarter results broadly in line with Wall Street's expectations. (JDB) 

 9:08 (Dow Jones) Chase technical analyst Michael Krauss says short- and medium-term trend on Nasdaq negative, and he expects test of this year's 3043 low by the November election. Longer-term, there's a huge trading range to unfold - from 2875-3043 on the downside and 4300-4600 on the upside. (TG) 

 8:59 (Dow Jones) In its final reporting period as an independent firm, PaineWebber Group Inc. (PWJ) beat analyst expectations in the third quarter. The firm's results were buoyed by higher trading volumes in September, analysts said. PaineWebber shareholders will vote on its proposed acquisition by Swiss banking group UBS AG later this month. (CUB) 

 8:55 (Dow Jones) With tech stocks set to open noticebaly lower, consider this: at one point this year, the technology portion of the S&P 500 was 34%. The latest bout of selling has left that number near 27%, which is still the highest sector makeup since oils in the 1970s. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwab03u7g
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Global Crossing Management Strong, Salomon Says 

1,081 words
11 October 2000
15:23
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 10:23 (Dow Jones) Salomon says Hindery resignation at Global Crossing (GBLX) no big surprise given he was brought in to maximize value of Global Center, which he did. Brokerage firm says remaining management team stronger than investors may realize. (TG) 

 10:18 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is firmer, with the market trading in "fast" market conditions. Floor traders say "everyone" is buying as bulls try to bargain hunt. "We've had 12 hours to digest the news," one trader says. "And really, we worked Lucent in late yesterday and Yahoo! and Motorola were about as expected. We closed yesterday with no premium (to cash) so it's natural to see at least that put in." (DMC) 

 10:16 (Dow Jones) A consistent if unspectacular grind lower, especially for the Nasdaq index, represents one of the less pleasant options of stock market observers. (see N/POV for full story). (LF) 

 10:14 (Dow Jones) Volatile morning in corporates, with market players still spooked by profit warnings. Telecom sector moved out 7-10 bp wider and now just starting to inch away from wides, traders say. (SPC) 

 10:10 (Dow Jones) August wholesale inventories up a healthy 0.6%. Sales up a smaller 0.3% increase. The ever-important inventory-to-sales ratio, however, held steady at 1.30 months. Not much new here for data mavens. (JN) 

 10:06 (Dow Jones) Alaska Air Group (ALK) 3Q profit warning is 'company-specific' and has few industrywide implications, analysts say. Higher income tax rate was 'the big thing', and the carrier is still recovering from bad publicity from the crash, they say. Alaska expects to earn 50c-70c/shr, below consensus estimate of $1.26/shr. Higher tax is seen reducing profits by 25c-30c. (SS) 

 10:01 (Dow Jones) "It's the stock market stupid," says Moody's. "Al Gore's standing in the polls has faded alongside the US equity market's latest slide. If stocks continue to move lower, the presidential election is Governor Bush's to lose." (JC) 

 9:58 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps are paring losses in early trade as Dec. Nasdaq tries to hold new gains. Support for Dec. S&Ps near session low, with resistance at 1414, according to Wellenreiter Investment News. Dec. S&Ps are 6.88% under their 50-day moving average and anything under 5% is considered oversold. (DMC) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Corning (GLW) off 4%. Can't be helped by Lucent's revelation that its 4Q optical revenue was off 5%, and margins below views. Of course, nothing in technology is working today. (TG) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Speaking of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE), Competitive Enterprise Institute President Fred Smith says, "The first target of antitrust regulators should be to break up these artificial monstrosities." (JC) 

 9:44 (Dow Jones) Remember that well-publicized release by the Clinton Administration of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve? It's not working. Banc of America says OPEC feels market is well supplied and it won't increase production. Tension in Middle East adds uncertainty to tight market, and data suggests higher prices into next year. (TG) 

 9:40 (Dow Jones) Five year Treasury yield fell briefly to lowest level in over a year, to 5.783%, lowest since Sept. 1999, says bond strategist in New York. Down about 3 bps on session. Previous lowest yield this calendar year was on Sept. 29, at 5.803% (JNP/SC) 

 9:38 (Dow Jones) Nordstrom (JWN) warns on 3Q, jolting investors who last week had popped the stock on news of nearly 8% jump in Sept. same-store sales. Reality: JWN still shifts clothes, but it remains undecided on its target base - younger is better? - and recent exec shuffles are a strain. Markdowns, expenses cited in lowering 3Q operating results by 4-7 cents, and $41M To $43M in charges expected. (GC) 

 9:34 (Dow Jones) Stocks down big early. Nasdaq needs to find support around these levels to calm antsy technicians. There is the potential for large, early blowoff to get reversed later in the session. DJIA off 41, Nasdaq drops 89, and S&P 500 loses 11. (TG) 

 9:25 (Dow Jones) It looks like the last analyst holdouts on Lucent (LU) are jumping ship. At least six brokerage firms cut ratings. Interestingly, even after the first 4Q warning, all six still had stock at buy or strong buy. (TG) 

 9:22 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg analyst Diane Glossman said Deutsche Bank AG's $49 per share bid for National Discount Brokers (NDB), made public Tuesday, was expensive, based on UBS's calculations of the multiples applied to NDB's market making and e-brokerage revenue streams. (CWM) 

 9:18 (Dow Jones) The IPO market continues to worsen. Only three of the six IPOs expected to price late Tuesday did, and none of the three priced at the high end of estimates - a sign that institutions are skeptical of new issues, forcing underwriters to price their deals to sell. (RJH) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Motorola (MOT) slashed fourth quarter earnings per share expectations by 10 cents and reduced full-year 2001 earnings per share estimates by as much as 24 cents a share. The company reported third quarter results broadly in line with Wall Street's expectations. (JDB) 

 9:08 (Dow Jones) Chase technical analyst Michael Krauss says short- and medium-term trend on Nasdaq negative, and he expects test of this year's 3043 low by the November election. Longer-term, there's a huge trading range to unfold - from 2875-3043 on the downside and 4300-4600 on the upside. (TG) 

 8:59 (Dow Jones) In its final reporting period as an independent firm, PaineWebber Group Inc. (PWJ) beat analyst expectations in the third quarter. The firm's results were buoyed by higher trading volumes in September, analysts said. PaineWebber shareholders will vote on its proposed acquisition by Swiss banking group UBS AG later this month. (CUB) 

 8:55 (Dow Jones) With tech stocks set to open noticebaly lower, consider this: at one point this year, the technology portion of the S&P 500 was 34%. The latest bout of selling has left that number near 27%, which is still the highest sector makeup since oils in the 1970s. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwab03u7c
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Alaska Air Warning Co. Specific 

1,127 words
11 October 2000
15:06
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 10:06 (Dow Jones) Alaska Air Group (ALK) 3Q profit warning is 'company-specific' and has few industrywide implications, analysts say. Higher income tax rate was 'the big thing', and the carrier is still recovering from bad publicity from the crash, they say. Alaska expects to earn 50c-70c/shr, below consensus estimate of $1.26/shr. Higher tax is seen reducing profits by 25c-30c. (SS) 

 10:01 (Dow Jones) "It's the stock market stupid," says Moody's. "Al Gore's standing in the polls has faded alongside the US equity market's latest slide. If stocks continue to move lower, the presidential election is Governor Bush's to lose." (JC) 

 9:58 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps are paring losses in early trade as Dec. Nasdaq tries to hold new gains. Support for Dec. S&Ps near session low, with resistance at 1414, according to Wellenreiter Investment News. Dec. S&Ps are 6.88% under their 50-day moving average and anything under 5% is considered oversold. (DMC) 

 9:55 (Dow Jones) Corning (GLW) off 4%. Can't be helped by Lucent's revelation that its 4Q optical revenue was off 5%, and margins below views. Of course, nothing in technology is working today. (TG) 

 9:50 (Dow Jones) Speaking of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE), Competitive Enterprise Institute President Fred Smith says, "The first target of antitrust regulators should be to break up these artificial monstrosities." (JC) 

 9:44 (Dow Jones) Remember that well-publicized release by the Clinton Administration of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve? It's not working. Banc of America says OPEC feels market is well supplied and it won't increase production. Tension in Middle East adds uncertainty to tight market, and data suggests higher prices into next year. (TG) 

 9:40 (Dow Jones) Five year Treasury yield fell briefly to lowest level in over a year, to 5.783%, lowest since Sept. 1999, says bond strategist in New York. Down about 3 bps on session. Previous lowest yield this calendar year was on Sept. 29, at 5.803% (JNP/SC) 

 9:38 (Dow Jones) Nordstrom (JWN) warns on 3Q, jolting investors who last week had popped the stock on news of nearly 8% jump in Sept. same-store sales. Reality: JWN still shifts clothes, but it remains undecided on its target base - younger is better? - and recent exec shuffles are a strain. Markdowns, expenses cited in lowering 3Q operating results by 4-7 cents, and $41M To $43M in charges expected. (GC) 

 9:34 (Dow Jones) Stocks down big early. Nasdaq needs to find support around these levels to calm antsy technicians. There is the potential for large, early blowoff to get reversed later in the session. DJIA off 41, Nasdaq drops 89, and S&P 500 loses 11. (TG) 

 9:25 (Dow Jones) It looks like the last analyst holdouts on Lucent (LU) are jumping ship. At least six brokerage firms cut ratings. Interestingly, even after the first 4Q warning, all six still had stock at buy or strong buy. (TG) 

 9:22 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg analyst Diane Glossman said Deutsche Bank AG's $49 per share bid for National Discount Brokers (NDB), made public Tuesday, was expensive, based on UBS's calculations of the multiples applied to NDB's market making and e-brokerage revenue streams. (CWM) 

 9:18 (Dow Jones) The IPO market continues to worsen. Only three of the six IPOs expected to price late Tuesday did, and none of the three priced at the high end of estimates - a sign that institutions are skeptical of new issues, forcing underwriters to price their deals to sell. (RJH) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Motorola (MOT) slashed fourth quarter earnings per share expectations by 10 cents and reduced full-year 2001 earnings per share estimates by as much as 24 cents a share. The company reported third quarter results broadly in line with Wall Street's expectations. (JDB) 

 9:08 (Dow Jones) Chase technical analyst Michael Krauss says short- and medium-term trend on Nasdaq negative, and he expects test of this year's 3043 low by the November election. Longer-term, there's a huge trading range to unfold - from 2875-3043 on the downside and 4300-4600 on the upside. (TG) 

 8:59 (Dow Jones) In its final reporting period as an independent firm, PaineWebber Group Inc. (PWJ) beat analyst expectations in the third quarter. The firm's results were buoyed by higher trading volumes in September, analysts said. PaineWebber shareholders will vote on its proposed acquisition by Swiss banking group UBS AG later this month. (CUB) 

 8:55 (Dow Jones) With tech stocks set to open noticebaly lower, consider this: at one point this year, the technology portion of the S&P 500 was 34%. The latest bout of selling has left that number near 27%, which is still the highest sector makeup since oils in the 1970s. (TG) 

 8:51 (Dow Jones) Bear Stearns analyst Amy Butte says the recent sell-off of securities firms may be "slightly overdone." Butte said the group is still positioned to deliver long-term earnings growth of 12% to 15% over the next three to five years. (CWM) 

 8:48 (Dow Jones) Where's all the oil? U.S. crude oil inventories dove this week, according to the American Petroleum Institute survey. With continuing tensions in the Middle East and brisk Northeastern weather, oil prices should remain strong and prolong the rally in oil stocks for a third day. (CCC) 

 8:39 (Dow Jones) GE 3Q meets views, and co. backs full-year view of $1.27/share. As analysts had expected, there's no mention of euro problems, as Street was comfortable GE had that issue covered. Equity index futures may be gaining ground on numbers, though market open still looks ugly. (TG) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Treasurys higher early Weds., as anticipated stock weakness expected to lend flight-to-quality bid for U.S. government securities. 10-yr Tsy up 3/32 at 99 25/32, yield down 2 bps to 5.76% (JNP) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) No rebound for stocks just yet. Equities poised to open sharply lower, as the key earnings numbers that came out late Tuesday will lend little to no support to market. More bad news for battered retailers after Nordstrom (JWN) preannounces weak 3Q. And, needless to say, Lucent isn't (LU) about to be added to anyone's recommended list. Maybe GE's numbers will help cut into this morning's expected loss on the DJIA. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwab03u6b
?
 

 Asian stocks slump on fears over US markets 

862 words
11 October 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 TOKYO, Oct 11 (AFP) - Asian shares were lower Wednesday as tumbling technology stocks in the US triggered sent more shock waves through world markets. 

 The South Korean market led falls in Asia, tumbling 5.3 percent as fears about technology stocks combined with concerns about the future of economic reforms in the country. 

 The key Tokyo market slumped 2.0 percent and Hong Kong slipped 2.7 percent as concerns about the direction of US markets intensified. 

 Malaysia was the only market in the region to rise Wednesday, with an unconvincing 0.4 percent gain due to institutional buying of key blue chips. 

 On Tuesday, the tech-heavy Nasdaq tumbled 115.03 points or 3.4 percent to close at 3,240.53 while the Dow industrials slipped 44.03 points or 0.4 percent to 10,524.40. 

 The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index lost 314.15 points to close at 15,513.57, the lowest closing level since March 12, 1999, when the key indicator ended at 15,488.86. 

 "The fall is mainly due to the US market's performance," said Tatsuo Kurokawa, senior market analyst at Nomura Securities. Co. 

 "There isn't any other major incentive in the Tokyo market to buy or to sell." 

 Sentiment on Wall Street was hit by expectations that corporate earnings of US firms would slump on the back of a weak euro and soaring crude oil prices, brokers said. 

 "Share prices in Tokyo are going down solely because of the lingering concerns over the outlook of US shares," Kurokawa said. 

 The Nikkei index temporarily plunged below the 15,500 point level, but public funds, such as postal savings and pension funds, helped stop the index declining further, brokers said. 

 HONG KONG: Share prices slid 2.7 percent as already negative sentiment was further dampened by the overnight losses on Wall Street. 

 The key Hang Seng index lost 427.11 points to close at 15,127.00 on turnover of 8.1 billion Hong Kong dollars (1.04 billion US). 

 Sunny Chan, vice-president of KGI Securities, said the Hang Seng Index was pressured by the decline on Wall Street overnight and the subsequent weakness in regional stock markets on Wednesday. 

 He said it was difficult to predict the direction of the Hang Seng index near term because of thin turnover. 

 Dealers said financial stocks were further weakened by reports their US counterparts stand to incur losses on their exposure to the junk bond market, while hi-tech counters extended their declines following a profit warning from Lucent Technologies. 

 SYDNEY: Australian shares eased 0.1 percent after Australia's dominant telecommunications carrier Telstra led the market to its sixth consecutive fall. 

 Contributing to the negative sentiment on the Australian equity market was another poor day on Wall Street. 

 Despite fighting back in the last hour of trade, the All Ordinaries index closed 3.8 points down at 3,213.1 and the SP/ASX 200 index dropped 4.5 points to 3,260.7. 

 Telecoms companies were suffering from poor sentiment around the world and this was reflected in the local market, Burdett Buckeridge and Young broker Richard Newton said. 

 SINGAPORE: Share prices closed 3.5 percent lower as shockwaves from tumbling technology stocks in the US rocked the local market. 

 The Straits Times Index fell 67.25 points to 1,846.56, while the broader All Singapore Equities Index dropped 14.94 points to 493.88. 

 "We are the tail being wagged by the dog, which is Wall Street," a dealer with a European brokerage said, referring to the falling stocks on Wall Street. 

 "We haven't seen the last of it," he said, amid warnings of lower profits by leading US technology firms. 

 The index may hold at 1,800 to 1,820 -- levels which have allowed the market to rebound in the past -- provided the bad news abated, he added. 

 KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian shares closed 0.4 percent higher due to buying of selected blue chips. 

 The Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange composite index ended up 3.00 points at 714.25. 

 Dealers said weak sentiment exacerbated by regional weakness continued to undermine the broad market. 

 Dealers said the market was mixed during the day, under pressure by Wall Street's falls and margin calls. 

 However, the selling pressure was offset by follow-through buying on select index-linked stocks, they added. 

 SEOUL: South Korean share prices plunged 5.3 percent on heavy foreign and institutional selling of semiconductor and telecoms stocks after Nasdaq's sharp losses overnight. 

 The Korea Stock Exchange composite index closed down 31.16 points at 557.18, off a low of 548.29. 

 The market saw a sell-off amid weak futures, with the index briefly falling through the 550-point level. 

 "There is a general consensus that (foreign investors) are cutting their holdings in South Korean equities as part of their risk management," a Hyundai Securities analyst said. 

 Jeon Byung-sun, the president of Morningstar Korea, said the composite index may fall to 500 points if the government's economic reform initiatives fail. 

 burs/bro 

Document afpr000020010803dwab048tw
?
 

David Nicklaus Column
BUSINESS
NEW DISCLOSURE REGULATION OPENS UP THE PROCESS  

By David Nicklaus Of The Post-Dispatch  
787 words
11 October 2000
St. Louis Post-Dispatch
SLMO
EDITION: FIVE STAR LIFT
PAGE: B1
English
Copyright 2000, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  

Will change be painful?  

The U.S. investment industry seems to forget that a painful change is often just the right medicine for the markets' long-run health.  

It happened in the 1930s when securities laws subjected brokers to tougher regulation, which was necessary for restoring the public's faith after the 1929 crash. It happened 20 years ago when fixed commissions were abolished, cutting into firms' profits but paving the way for a massive increase in trading volume. And it will happen again with the Securities and Exchange Commission's new regulation on selective disclosure.  

The regulation, which takes effect Oct. 23, bans the practice of disclosing information to a small group of people -- such as securities analysts -- before it is disclosed to the public.  

Some analysts think the regulation will make their jobs more difficult. One of their key tasks is to forecast earnings, something they typically do by reading all available information about the company, poring over financial statements and then talking to company executives.  

The regulation specifically says that a company official "takes on a high degree of risk" when talking privately to an analyst about earnings.  

So, skeptics say, analysts' forecasts are likely to miss the mark more often, leading to more days like Sept. 22, when Intel shares fell 22 percent after the company said its sales weren't growing as fast as analysts thought, or Sept. 29, when Apple Computer shares fell 52 percent after issuing a profit warning.  

But Chuck Hill, research director at First Call/Thomson Financial, thinks companies will find ways to get the word out without breaking the law. "You're going to see more pre-announcements, more conference calls, more Web-casting opportunities," he said.  

Some companies will have to go through a transition period, Hill said, "to learn that their overly conservative lawyers telling them, 'Say nothing, do nothing,' is not going to work."  

Others will move quickly toward broader disclosure. Phone company Alltel, for instance, recently said it will have conference calls twice a quarter, instead of just once, and will make them open to the press and individual investors, as well as analysts. "That's a good thing," Hill said. "It levels the playing field."  

Robert Sharp, director of investor relations at Emerson Electric Co. in St. Louis, said he didn't think Emerson would have to change its disclosure practices as a result of the new regulation. But Emerson already has moved in the direction of broader disclosure. An analyst conference in May was broadcast on the Internet, and the company recently started letting reporters listen in on earnings conference calls that formerly were for analysts only.  

Nasser Arshadi, a finance professor at the University of Missouri-St. Louis, said the way analysts deal with companies "was one of those incestuous relationships that never worked so well." Analysts had every incentive to write nice things about a company so their access wouldn't be cut off.  

Juli Niemann, an analyst at R.T. Jones Capital Equities in Ladue, recalls an instance when another analyst described, in detail, a restructuring plan by Atlantic Richfield, weeks before the oil company announced it.  

Such leaks infuriate other analysts, not to mention individual investors, who don't enjoy favored access to the executive suite. So Niemann is all for a ban on selective disclosure.  

But she fears that companies will just clam up. One problem, she said, is that the regulation bans sharing material information in a private conversation, but never defines the word "material."  

"When there's a lack of good information, then everything's a surprise, and there's even more volatility in the market," Niemann said.  

Ron King, a professor of accounting at Washington University's Olin School of Business, noted that the SEC wants full, fair disclosure by companies. This regulation may make disclosure fairer but less full, he said.  

"The analysts will have less information, I think," King said. "The information that they get from an issuer is going to be close to what everyone else gets."  

On the positive side for analysts, though, King said they may gain more credibility with clients and the public.  

But they'll have to go back to basics, First Call's Hill said. "Analysts still need face time with management," he said. "They need to know what makes management tick, about the strategy and the company's markets and so on. They'll have to focus on those sorts of things rather than on, 'Hey, are you going to make the quarter, Mr. CEO?'"  

Talking Business forum at: postnet.com/nicklaus dnicklaus@postnet.com

Document SLMO000020040606dwab014x0
?
 

 The gloom goes on: Lucent: shares of telecom giant fall on  profit warning , concern over debt.(Lucent Technologies)(Company Financial Information) 

 Jennifer Files 
99 words
11 October 2000
San Jose Mercury News
SJMN
C1
ISSN: 0747-2099
English
 Copyright 2000 Knight Ridder New Media 

 Lucent Technologies' share value dropped on Oct 10. 2000, when the company announced that it will report a decline in earnings for the quarter ended Sep 30. In after-hours trading, the stock fell to $24.25, down $7.13 from its New York Stock Exchange close of $31.38. Industry observers said they believe the problem is limited to Lucent, but other networking companies' shares dropped too. 

Total number of pages for this article: 2

Document sjmn000020010813dwab00095
?
 

The Carolinas
BUSINESS
THE CAROLINAS

By SHARON E. WHITE, Staff Writer and Reuters   
381 words
11 October 2000
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
1D
English
Copyright 2000 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

Textile firm lowers profit estimate

In another sign of difficult times for the textile industry, WestPoint Stevens Inc. cut its third-quarter profit estimate Tuesday for the second time in two weeks because of poor sales.

Analysts said it was possible WestPoint and its main competitors, such as Fort Mill-based Springs Industries Inc. and Pillowtex Corp., which operates large plants in Cabarrus and Rowan County, would face more tough times in the fourth quarter.

Like many of its rivals in the textile industry, WestPoint has been hard hit by rising interest rates and a resulting slowdown in its sales.

The profit warning came just days after WestPoint announced it would close factories in Union, S.C., and Roanoke Rapids with 565 workers.

Tuesday, the Georgia company said it expected to earn between 55 and 60 cents a share when it reported results next week. Before the profit warning, Wall Street analysts had on expected the company to report 65 cents a share in the period, according to First Call/Thomson Financial.

- Reuters

*

3-D golf mapping company to move to Gastonia

GeoGolf, a 3-D golf course mapping and animation company, will relocate from Cary to Gastonia to the former Dixie Yarns Inc. offices at 1029 S. Marietta St.

The company's two 35-year-old co-owners - Devlin Reynolds and Dan Bergeson - say their primary markets are the PGA Tour, video game companies and golf course architects. Customers include ESPN, EA Sports and Palmer Design. The company also recently launched a real estate component that provides virtual tours of residential and commercial developments.

- Sharon E. White

*

In Brief

CORNING INC. said Tuesday it bought Champion Products Inc., a private telecommunications equipment manufacturer with operations in Missouri and Florida. Champion will be incorporated into Hickory-based subsidiary Corning Cable Systems, which is broadening its hardware product line used in telecommunications and cable TV networks, the company said.

BANK OF GRANITE, Granite Falls, posted third-quarter earnings of $3.7 million, or 33 cents a share, up from $3.6 million, or 31 cents a share.

PARK MERIDIAN BANK of Charlotte, earned $641,000, or 23 cents a share, up from $516,000 or 19 cents a share.

Document CLTO000020090630dwab0154c
?
 Business 
 NYSE Update 

 Tony Guida, Bill Tucker, Rhonda Schaffler 
739 words
11 October 2000
17:00
CNNfn: Market Coverage - Afternoon
MKTC
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 BILL TUCKER, CNNfn ANCHOR, MARKET COVERAGE: Why don`t we take a look on what is going on on Wall Street and for that let`s check in with Rhonda Schaffler at the New York - on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange we  might add.  Hey, Rhonda. 

 RHONDA SCHAFFLER, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Hi Bill and Tony.  You know this has been a real busy volatile wild day.  First volume wise, 1.1 billion shares changing hands.  So that`s heavier than normal.  The Dow has recovered from a severe triple-digit loss.  The broader market has not. Decliners beat advancers by a 2 to 1 margin.  Bad news from two companies in particular, Lucent (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) ,  with a profit warning and Motorola (URL: http://www.mot.com/) with a diminished outlook for the year 2000, weighing on the market, although, the comeback here some people are impressed with, some of the technology stocks people believe there is bottom fishing going on, whether or not it holds, too early to say.   But one trader I`d talk with who tends to be a little bit on the bearer side was actually encourage by the fact that the market is holding here.  The Dow right now off, 91 points.  So it`s pretty much pared it`s earlier losses in half. 

 Mentioned technology stocks which starting to rebound some of the selected names, some of the chip stocks in particular.  We also are seeing some buying in oil stocks, some in paper stocks, some in pharmaceutical stocks but the other problem sector for the Dow has been financial stocks and brokerages. This is sounding like a broken record here because they continue to trend lower.   Let`s take a look at some of the losses today.  Morgan Stanley (URL: http://www.msdw.com/) down better than 2.  Lehman Brothers (URL: http://www.lehman.com/) is off more than 3. Yesterday Lehman was down more than 7.  J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) adds 3 7/8 to yesterday`s $5 decline. Goldman Sachs (URL: http://www.gs.com/) down 2 11/16 and PaineWebber (URL: http://www.painewebber.com/) is down more than a dollar.  Reported third quarter earnings that were a couple of pennies above what the street was looking for, although revenues slipped from a year ago. Worries about brokerages even though PaineWebber`s report was fine, is just what is going on here with the stock market and is it going to impact the businesses of some of those brokerage firms.  So that group is one people continue to shy away from. The fact that you do still see some buying out there even though on these very down days others are trying to be encouraged by that news.  It`s defensive buying some of  it with the pharmaceuticals moving higher but you can still find decent number of stocks still up in this broad market downturn.  Bill, Tony. 

 TUCKER:  And Rhonda, we can only hope that the Dow has found it`s floor and it is not about to fallout as you were standing on it at this moment, so thanks Rhonda.  Rhonda Schaffler down at the New York Stock Exchange. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and  programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s  personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may  infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript  for purposes of litigation. 

Document mktc000020010808dwab003jh
?
 

Tech Stock Focus
 Xerox Cuts Quarterly Dividend To Five Cents Per Share --- Move Comes Amid Pressure to Boost Profitability 

 By Joseph Pereira 
Staff Reporter
440 words
11 October 2000
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
13
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Xerox Corp., under pressure to conserve cash and improve profitability, slashed its quarterly dividend to five cents a share from 20 cents a share. 

 The action peeled back the shareholder payout to 1966 levels and is expected to save the company about $400 million annually. 

 Struggling to deal with mounting competition, a technological shift toward computer printers and away from its core copier products, and nonpayments from some customers, Xerox had warned that it planned the dividend cut last week, without giving a figure. 

 The cut, announced after the close of regular New York Stock Exchange trading Tuesday, was steep but not as drastic as analysts had considered possible. "By my estimates, this is the maximum level of dividend the company can afford to pay," said Gibboney Huske, of Credit Suisse First Boston. "I thought that perhaps Xerox would also suspend the dividend in its entirety." 

 At 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Xerox's stock closed at $10.44 a share, down 31 cents. 

 The shares plunged 26% last week following a warning that Xerox would post a third-quarter loss of 15 cents to 20 cents a share, reversing earlier expectations of a modest profit. 

 While the cut was viewed as "a positive step" by Moody's Investors Service Inc., it isn't enough to prompt the rating agency to consider revising its rating of the company's $14.2 billion in long-term debt, said Richard Lane, a Moody's analyst. On Sept. 27, Moody's lowered its rating on that debt to Baa-2 from single-A-3. The Moody's rating outlook remains stable. 

 "The key to the rating will center on the company's profits and cash flow in its core copier business," Mr. Lane said. He added that the agency is also waiting for Xerox to sell parts of its noncore business, as it has already indicated it plans to do, before any move toward revisions. 

 Last month, Standard & Poor's Rating Group also lowered its long-term debt ratings on Xerox from single-A-minus to triple-B/Stable. 

 As part of an effort to regain its financial footing, Xerox also has indicated that it will consider selling parts of its noncore businesses. To that end, analysts have named some likely sale candidates, including Xerox's vast financing operations; its 50% interest in Fuji Xerox, a big joint venture with Fuji Photo Film Co.; and Xerox's low-end inkjet and copier business. 

Document awsj000020010803dwab00c7e
?
 

 UPDATE1-US linen maker WestPoint cuts profit outlook. 

396 words
10 October 2000
17:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 WEST POINT, Ga., Oct 10 (Reuters) - WestPoint Stevens Inc., a U.S. manufacturer of bed, bath and linen products, on Tuesday cut its third-quarter profit estimate for the second time in two weeks due to poor sales. 

 The WestPoint, Ga.-based company, which produces brands such as Lady Pepperell and Vellux, expected to earn between 55 and 60 cents a share when it reported results next week. 

 Before the profit warning, Wall Street analysts had on average expected the company to report 65 cents a share in the period, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks consensus data. 

 Investors wasted little time before staring to sell. The company's shares fell $1-3/4, or more than 16 percent, to $8-7/8, near a 52-week low, in midday trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 "The retail environment for the kind of products that WestPoint Stevens sells is definitely slowing. Based on what they're telling me, it's been a pretty bad September," said Keith Hughes, analyst with SunTrust Equitable in Atlanta. 

 Analysts said it was possible the company and its main competitors, such as Springs Industries Inc. and Pillowtex Corp. , would face more tough times in the fourth quarter. 

 WestPoint said it would update its outlook for the fourth quarter next week. 

 Like many of its rivals in the textile industry, WestPoint has been hard hit by rising interest rates and a resulting slowdown in its sales, which are expected to fall 3 percent in the third quarter compared with last year. 

 WestPoint's sales appeared to have dropped off even further after Sept. 27 when the company said its earnings in the third quarter could fall to 65 cents a share, 10 cents below analysts' expectations. 

 "Further erosion of retail sales in the last week of the quarter has resulted in the reduced outlook," WestPoint Stevens said in a statement on Tuesday. 

 The latest profit warning came just days after the company announced it would close two of its factories in the Carolinas as part of a strategy to increase profits, boost revenues and cut indebtedness. 

 WestPoint said 565 workers would be "affected" by the closure of its Liebhardt subsidiary's factory in Union, S.C. on Dec. 31 and Rosemary Greige plant in Roanoke Rapids, N.C. on Jan. 29. 

Document lba0000020010822dwaa04iev
?
 

 Xerox Slashes Its Dividend To Five Cents 

 By Joseph Pereira 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
534 words
10 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Xerox Corp., under pressure to conserve cash and improve profitability, slashed its quarterly dividend to five cents a share from 20 cents a share. 

 The action peeled back the shareholder payout to 1966 levels and is expected to save the company about $400 million annually. 

 Struggling to deal with mounting competition, a technological shift toward computer printers and away from its core copier products, and nonpayments from some customers, Xerox had warned that it planned the dividend cut last week, without giving a figure. 

 The cut, announced after the close of regular New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday, was steep but not as drastic as analysts had considered possible. "By my estimates, this is the maximum level of dividend the company can afford to pay," said Gibboney Huske, of Credit Suisse First Boston. "I thought that perhaps Xerox would also suspend the dividend in its entirety." 

 At 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Xerox's stock closed at $10.44 a share, down 31 cents. No after-hours transactions were reported by traders early yesterday evening. 

 The shares plunged 26% last week following a warning that Xerox would post a third-quarter loss of 15 cents to 20 cents a share, reversing earlier expectations of a modest profit. 

 While the cut was viewed as "a positive step" by Moody's Investors Service Inc., it isn't enough to prompt the rating agency to consider revising its rating of the company's $14.2 billion in long-term debt, said Richard Lane, a Moody's analyst. On Sept. 27, Moody's lowered its rating on that debt to Baa-2 from single-A-3. The Moody's rating outlook remains stable. 

 "The key to the rating will center on the company's profits and cash flow in its core copier business," Mr. Lane said. He added that the agency is also waiting for Xerox to sell parts of its noncore business, as it has already indicated it plans to do, before any move toward revisions. 

 Last month, Standard & Poor's Rating Group also lowered its long-term debt ratings on Xerox from single-A-minus to triple-B/Stable. 

 As part of an effort to regain its financial footing, Xerox also has indicated that it will consider selling parts of its noncore businesses. To that end, analysts have named some likely sale candidates, including Xerox's vast financing operations; its 50% interest in Fuji Xerox, a big joint venture with Fuji Photo Film Co.; and Xerox's low-end inkjet and copier business. The assets, singled out for the auction block by analysts, are valued at between $5 billion and $8 billion. 

 But the company has given no indication of where the trimming will come from. 

 Company officials have also signaled that there would be more job cuts coming. Xerox, which has already been through several downsizings, is currently in the middle of one. The company, however, has said it doesn't plan to cut its sales force. 

 The common dividend is payable Jan. 1, 2001, to stock of record Dec. 1, 2000. 

Document j000000020010807dwaa00q3z
?
 

 Chips, Earnings Jitters Pressure Tech Shares 

 By Danielle Sessa 
1,409 words
10 October 2000
17:29
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WSJ.com 

 NEW YORK -- Already slumping semiconductor issues took a turn for the worse Tuesday as concerns about declining revenue growth for chip companies sent the sector and the broader technology market lower. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index sank 115.02, or 3.4%, to close at 3240.54, while Morgan Stanley's high-tech index fell 34.94, or 3.9%, to 870.25. The Dow Jones Internet Index lost 11.41, or 4.4%, to 249.62. 

 Investors cashed in their chips Tuesday -- literally. 

 Chip stocks were down across the board after two brokerages downgraded Altera and Xilinx on concerns about easing revenue growth over the next six months. Many shareholders, who have been holding onto their stakes on the hope of a fourth-quarter rebound in the group, unwound their positions in semiconductor issues. 

 The Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor Index plunged 79 points, or 10%, to 707, it's lowest close in roughly 10 months. 

 Early Tuesday, Lehman Brothers slashed its rating on Altera and Xilinx to "neutral" from "outperform," while Salomon Smith Barney reduced its rating on them to "outperform" from "buy." 

 Lehman analyst Dan Niles said changed his rating on the stocks because the growth rates for the next two quarters are likely to "slow noticeably" as customers and manufacturers balance their inventory and orders as the availability of components increase. 

 "The near record margin levels will make future EPS [earnings per share] upside dependent on higher revenue growth," Mr. Niles said in a report Tuesday. "Greater than 75% (year-over-year) revenue growth for both Altera and Xilinx in the Sept. quarter is hard to reconcile or maintain when their end markets are growing closer to 30-40%." 

 Altera sank $11.06, or 27%, to $29.81 and Xilinx dropped $16.69, or 21%, to $62.44 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The two chip companies were the two most active issues traded on the Nasdaq, with Altera shares trading at 8.5 times its average daily volume and Xilinx trading at more than 11 times its average daily volume. 

 'Highly Unusual' 

 Xilinx issued a press release in the early afternoon that reinforced the financial guidelines it gave analysts at the start of September. The company said revenue for its second quarter would grow at 15% or more from the previous quarter and that it is comfortable with the First Call/Thomson Financial consensus estimate for its full fiscal year. The consensus estimate for Xilinx year results ending in March 2001 is $1.27 a share, according to a First Call survey of 24 analysts. The company will release its fiscal second quarter results on Oct. 17  after the market close. 

 "This is highly unusual," said Chris Chaney, semiconductor analyst with AG Edwards in St. Louis. "I can't think of a situation where they gave this much guidance a week in advance of a report date because of an analyst downgrade." 

 Altera also issued a statement Tuesday that said it hadn't changed its targets since its last update on Aug. 31, when it said to expect 15% revenue growth. 

 Many investors were hoping that an increase in personal-computer demand in the fourth quarter and a seasonal upswing chip demand would spark a rally in the sector. However, confidence in that argument has been waning as negative preannouncements from Intel and two major PC makers have indicated that demand is falling. 

 Other Chip Firms Fall 

 The prospects for a slowdown in the chip business in the near term sent shares of other semiconductor companies tumbling. PMC Sierra lost $19.06, or 10%, to $171 and Applied Materials fell $6.69, or 12%, to $49.06 on Nasdaq. Micron Technology slid $2.94 to $36.88 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Semiconductor stocks have been in freefall since the start of September. The analyst downgrades and ensuing price declines deepens the wounds that semiconductors have suffered since the end of the summer. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor Index has lost 39% since the start of last month; the index has only finished on the plus side in six sessions since Aug. 31. 

 Mr. Chaney sees few catalysts to propel the sector for the remainder of the year. "In the near term, I am very cautious about the stocks I follow," he said. "Not because the business is deteriorating, but because the business isn't growing as fast as it used to and momentum players aren't going to be supporting the stocks at all until they improve." 

 Anxious for Earnings 

 Investors are cautiously looking ahead to the start of earnings season. A slew of negative preannouncements from such heavyweights as Intel, Dell Computer and Sprint put investors on edge about the upcoming reporting period. After the market closes Tuesday, Yahoo! reported its quarterly results. 

 Yahoo calmed investors nerves when it beat not only earning forecasts by one penny, but also posted higher-than-expected sales for the third quarter. On a pro-forma basis, the company reported 13 cents a share, beating Wall Street forecasts of 12 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Yahoo generated $296 million in revenue, easily beating the analyst consensus estimate of $281 million. 

 Wall Street was anxiously awaiting the Yahoo's financial results to find out how much the weakness in dot-com advertising has effected the Web portal. 

 Ahead of their earning reports, Yahoo fell $3.06 to $82.69 on Nasdaq, while Motorola dropped 63 cents to $26.38 and AMD lost 13 to $22.25 $22.12 on the Big Board. 

 Another earnings warning may damper the start of trading Wednesday. Lucent Technologies, which already warned in July that revenue and profit for its fiscal fourth quarter would come in below forecasts, said late Tuesday that results even weaker than expected. 

 Shares of the telecommunications-equipment manufacturer fell 94 cents to $31.38 in 4 p.m. trading on the Big Board, but traded at $24.13 in after-hours activity on Instinet. 

 Online Brokers Gain 

 Meanwhile, it wasn't all doom-and-gloom in tech land. Some issues managed to post gains despite all the turmoil in the semiconductor sector.  Online brokers got a lift when an affiliate of Deutsche Bank offered to buy National Discount Brokers Group for $1.01 billion, or $49 a share. The places a 94% premium on NDB's Monday closing price of $25.25 on the Big Board. 

 NDB rose $22.44 to $47.69, while Charles Schwab inched up 12 cents to $29.31 and TD Waterhouse Group rose six cents to $16.50 on the Big Board. E*Trade Group edged up six cents to $16.50 and Ameritrade Holding advanced 50 cents to $14.63 on Nasdaq. 

 Meanwhile, Qualcomm was making waves again in Asia. Chinese officials met Friday with Qualcomm Chief Executive Irwin Jacobs and signaled that the country is "very close" to developing a wireless network using CDMA technology. Qualcomm has been trying to get Asian countries to adopt its CDMA wireless technology for mobile phone networks for months, but the uncertainty surrounding the situation has weighed on Qualcomm's stock price. 

 Qualcomm climbed 31 cents to $79.69 on Nasdaq. 

 Elsewhere, PEC Solutions climbed 38 cents to $5.50 on Nasdaq. The company, which helps government agencies use the Internet and other technology tools, will work with Electronic Data Systems on its newly awarded $6.9 billion contract for the Navy and Marines. 

 Xerox gained 44 cents to $10.88 on the New York Stock Exchange. The company slashed its quarterly dividend to five cents from 20 cents, under pressure to conserve cash and improve profitability. The move is expected to save the company $400 million annually. 

 Open Market tumbled 66 cents, or 17%, to $3.28 on Nasdaq. The e-business software maker warned of a deeper-than-expected quarterly loss and said it will cut about 150 workers in a restructuring effort. 

 American depositary receipts of Xeikon lost $2.12, or 17%, to $10.75 on Nasdaq. The color-printing-systems maker said it expects to report a third-quarter operating loss on revenue of $42 million, citing a 22% decline in the Euro and a delay in the equipment shipments for the decline in performance. 

 Write to Danielle Sessa at danielle.sessa@wsj.com 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwaa01la9
?
 

 Lucent Issues 4th Quarter Warning As It Will Miss Lowered Numbers 

 By Johnathan Burns 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
330 words
10 October 2000
22:02
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Lucent Technologies Inc. (LU), which had already slashed projections for the fourth quarter, said Tuesday after market close it will come in as much as 10 cents below Wall Street's earnings per share expectations. 

 Just a few weeks after rumors ran rampant that the company would miss the quarter, Lucent issued a press release confirming the worst of market fears. 

 The company said it experienced less-than-expected revenue and gross margins in its optical systems business, which has been a boon to competitors like Nortel Networks Corp. (NT). Lucent also said credit concerns with start-up phone companies has led to increasing reserves for bad debt, while a steeper-than-anticipated decline in circuit switching sales and margins also hit the bottom line. 

 Worse still, Lucent said its fourth quarter results will "impact and lower its guidance for fiscal year 2001." 

 The announcement came as a surprise to many on Wall Street, who had expected Lucent to meet the already reduced numbers. 

 "At this point, we're going to wait to see what the company says," one telecommunications equipment analyst said. "I will say this much, the warning was a shock, but not as big a shock as the amount of the shortfall." 

 Lucent said it expects pro forma revenue from continuing operations of $9.3 billion to $9.4 billion, slightly lower than some analysts' previous estimates. 

 In July, Lucent slashed its fourth quarter and 2001 earnings guidance after beating earnings expectations in the third quarter. The company lost $40 billion worth of market capitalization after the announcement. 

 Earlier this year, Lucent badly missed the first quarter's earnings expectations after similarly preannouncing negative results. 

 Lucent was scheduled to hold a press conference at 5 p.m. to discuss the profit warning. 


-Johnathan Burns, Dow Jones Newswires, 201-938-2020
   johnathan.burns@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010805dwaa03tm6
?
 

 Companies: Veeco Issues  Profit Warning ; Executive Resigns 

245 words
9 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
5
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 PLAINVIEW, New York -- Veeco Instruments Inc. warned that third-quarter earnings would only be half of previous estimates, in large part due to disappointing results from its recently acquired CVC unit. The microelectronics-parts maker also said its president resigned "to pursue other interests." 

 In 4 p.m. trading Friday on the Nasdaq Stock Market, Vecco shares tumbled to $67.56 (OE77.78), off $34.97, or 34%. 

 Veeco said CVC's former Chairman Christine B. Whitman, who became president, chief operating officer and a director of Veeco when the company acquired CVC Inc. in May for approximately $300 million, would continue as a consultant over the next several months. Ms. Whitman, 49 years old, couldn't be reached for comment, but in a statement said she was "very enthusiastic about the future of Veeco." Edward H. Braun, chairman and chief executive officer, will assume the additional title of president. 

 The company declined to comment further on Ms. Whitman's departure, but in a statement on the earnings, Veeco cited difficulties in the CVC division for a major part of the decline in sales and earnings. The company said lowered expectations resulted from the CVC division's $7 million shortfall in sales, costs associated with the move of Veeco's Virginia facility to New York, and missed or delayed shipments from Veeco's Ion Tech subsidiary. CVC is a provider of manufacturing equipment used by high-tech companies. 

Document wsje000020010814dwa900fxi
?
 

 UPDATE 1-DaimlerChrysler pools e-business in new unit. 

 By James Mackenzie 
501 words
9 October 2000
12:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 STUTTGART, Germany, Oct 9 (Reuters) - DaimlerChrysler AG said on Monday it had grouped its Internet business activities into a new unit called DCX Net to tighten its online operations across the group from purchasing and production to sales. 

 The new unit will operate as a holding company within DaimlerChrysler with startup capital of $500 million and will cooperate with specialist e-business companies as well as making investments of its own. 

 "The new holding will forge alliances, enter into joint ventures and invest to promote the company's e-business activities," Eckhard Cordes, board member with responsibility for the new company, said in a statement. 

 DaimlerChrysler's share price, which slumped in the wake of a profit warning related to the Chrysler division two weeks ago, rose on the news and by 1120 GMT, was 2.22 percent higher at 52.45 euros while the benchmark DAX index was 0.97 percent lower. 

 DCX NET IPO NOT RULED OUT 

 Cordes did not rule out a separate listing in the longer term for DCX Net, which has been set up as a wholly-owned limited liability company (GmbH), but said this was not an immediate priority. 

 "It's mainly about creating a complete business platform across the group," he said. 

 In addition to DCX Net, the company has stocked up its venture capital unit DaimlerChrysler Venture Capital Funds, giving the fund a total 120 million euros ($104.3 million) to invest in new start-up ventures with relevance to DaimlerChrysler business. 

 DCX Net will cover all Daimler e-business activities from business-to-business (B2B) procurement to business to consumer (B2C) sales and marketing and telematics online navigational and alarm aids and fleet management systems, the company said. 

 The world's third largest automaker is looking for a range of cost savings from the Internet, which is expected to bring costs savings of some 15 to 30 percent in design and production processes, Cordes said. 

 The DCX Net initiative follows last month's U.S. and German regulatory approval of the joint Covisint B2B initiative between DaimlerChrysler, Ford Motor Co., General Motors and Renault which is intended to cut purchasing costs in the auto industry by moving most of the order chain onto the Internet. 

 DaimlerChrysler has also beefed up its online marketing activities, and now offers new Mercedes-Benz cars for sale over the Internet as well as upgraded online product information and services. 

 Harald Schuff, head of e-business activities outside North America said that within the next few years some 90 percent of all car purchases would involve the Internet at some stage of the buying process. 

 DCX Net Holding will collaborate with a wide range of e-business development partners and will maintain offices in New York, Detroit, Tokyo, Palo Alto and Stuttgart. 

 The new division will be headed by John Stellman, currently Vice President mergers and acquisitions and Olaf Kock, Vice President corporate e-business. 

Document lba0000020010822dwa904gek
?
 

 Singapore NatSteel Elec: Apple Hasn't Canceled Contracts 

303 words
9 October 2000
07:25
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 SINGAPORE -(Dow Jones)- NatSteel Electronics Ltd. (P.NSE) said Monday that Apple Computer Inc. (AAPL) hasn't canceled any contracts with it, said Chay Yee Ming, its chief financial officer. 

 "Apple is still using NEL as the exclusive supplier for motherboards," Chay said. 

 He was responding to a written questionnaire sent by Dow Jones Newswires Friday, following concerns that a profit warning by Apple, its largest customer, could lead to cancelation of some of NatSteel Electronics' contracts. 

 NatSteel Electronics' stock has shed a hefty 30% since Apple's warning Sept. 28 and is trading at its 96-week low. 

 It traded at S$3.54 at 0530 GMT (1:30 a.m. EDT) Monday. 

 Apple accounts for around 50% of NatSteel Electronics' revenue. It provides motherboards for Apple's iMac and PowerMac G4 computers and makes computer peripherals for the company. 

 According to market talk, its warning could cause the world's fifth largest contract manufacturer to shut one of its plants. 

 But Chay said: "There is no plant shutdown." 

 NatSteel Electronics has a new plant opening later, he said. 

 NatSteel Electronics has production facilities spread throughout the world, including Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and Hungary. 

 However, comments alone from the company may be insufficient to convince the market of its resilience in face of Apple's warning, analysts said. 

 Several research houses have downgraded NEL to a hold or a sell since the warning. 

 Merrill Lynch recently downgraded the company's medium term rating to an accumulate from a buy. 

 It has cut its earnings-per-share forecast for the company this year by 9.1% to 13.9 Singapore cents and for next year by 10% to 20.5 cents. 

 -By Puja Rajeev; Dow Jones Newswires; 65-421-4824; puja.rajeev@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010805dwa904wn3
?
 

 Williams-Sonoma Latest Casualty Of Slowing Economy 

 By Philana Patterson 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
1,067 words
9 October 2000
19:24
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Home furnishings retailer and direct-marketer Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM) said fiscal third-quarter earnings wouldn't meet expectations, proving that not even the home sector is immune to the slowing economy. 

 The San Francisco operator of Williams-Sonoma, Pottery Barn, Pottery Barn Kids, Hold Everything and Chambers said it expects third-quarter earnings to be about 4 cents to 6 cents a diluted share. The First Call/Thomson Financial consensus had put earnings at 18 cents. The company said it couldn't yet provide guidance about the fourth quarter, but would do so during its third-quarter conference call on Nov. 14. 

 The hope for the home sector had been that the recent housing boom and baby boomers' appetite for decorating their homes, as opposed to buying apparel, would help merchants focused on the home perform better than some other retailers as the economy slows. 

 But the announcement last week by home improvement retailer Lowe's Cos. (LOW) that third-quarter same-store sales would be below estimates, and now Williams-Sonoma's profit warning, may call that theory into question. 

 Williams-Sonoma began seeing weakness in its catalog business in late August and early September, Chairman and Chief Executive Howard Lester said during a conference call. Weaker-than-expected response to its early holiday books showed even greater sales erosion. The company had forecast catalog sales up 40%, but now expects a 30% increase. The revenue shortfall follows the company's efforts to boost sales by increasing circulation. Now that effort will prove costly on the gross margin line. 

 The slowdown isn't limited to just one area. While retail comparable-store sales are expected to meet the company's forecast to rise 4% to 5%, that increase will come at a price. Williams-Sonoma plans to mark down merchandise earlier than usual, hurting margins. The only concept that is meeting its forecasts is Chambers, Lester said. 

 "We are seeing negative response across four different catalogs and that's very unusual for us," Lester said. 

 The company is experiencing softness across all product lines, but furniture is particularly weak, company officials said. 

 In addition to the increase in promotions, retail gross margins are being hurt by rising costs to ship goods from its distribution centers to its stores. All year, fuel surcharges have pressured gross margins by about 100 basis points. Fuel costs have increased a bit more in the past month. 

 Williams-Sonoma shares recently were down 29.5%, or $7.94, at $18.94 on volume of 4.1 million, compared with average daily volume of 379,000. 

 Separately, Williams-Sonoma said Chief Financial Officer John Tate is leaving the company. He will become Chief Financial Officer of Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc. (KREM) and president of its manufacturing and distribution division. The company's vice president of finance, Sharon McCollam will move into the chief financial officer role. Analysts said they didn't see obvious links to the departure and the profit warning. 

 While Williams-Sonoma's third quarter revenue should come close to analysts' estimates, the earnings miss is significant, said First Union analyst Ralph Jean prior to the company's conference call on Monday. 

 "A 12 to 14 cents miss in earnings is a huge deal and the fact that they'll probably miss earnings in the fourth quarter is part of the message," he said. 

 While the company hasn't yet offered specific fourth quarter guidance - during the conference call Chief Executive Lester did say the company should be able to do better than the 82 cents a share it earned a year earlier - analysts have begun cutting estimates. First Call currently puts Williams-Sonoma's fourth quarter earnings at $1.09 a share, $1.44 for the year and $1.77 in fiscal 2002. 

 Lehman Brothers Inc,. analyst Alan Rifkin cut his fourth quarter estimate to 95 cents a share from $1.08 and cut his estimate for the year to $1.18 from $1.44. He cut next year's estimate to $1.50 a share from $1.78. 

 In Williams-Sonoma's case, even a small amount of gross margin pressure can hurt the third quarter's bottom line a great deal because of the smaller percentage of revenue that comes from the quarter, said ABN Amro analyst Kevin Silverman. The company has been spending money to continue to develop its Pottery Barn Kids business and to launch a new moderately-priced concept, Elm Street. The company has also been spending to improve its distribution facilities. 

 "This company does not have a top line problem - they may have expected (revenue) to grow faster," Silverman said. 

 Silverman estimates Williams-Sonoma's fiscal fourth quarter revenue will be more than $640 million, up about 19% from a year earlier, compared with a third-quarter estimate for $390 million, up about 20% from a year ago. 

 "(In the fourth quarter) the revenue line is big enough to absorb those expenses," Silverman said. He also thinks a larger issue could be looming. 

 "I'm not an economist, I'm just a guy who reads the paper, but I think we may be in a recession," Silverman said. 

 Despite Williams-Sonoma's stumble, analysts believe the home-related retail market is still intact. However, First Union's Jean said he believes the market will continue to separate the winners from the losers. 

 "I think spending on home will continue to be strong, growth in spending on the home has exceeded apparel in six of the last seven years," Jean said. 

 In addition to its earnings woes, Williams-Sonoma may be faced with a credibility problem, some analysts said. The company said little about earnings during its analyst meeting at the end of September, analyst said. In a research note, Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown analyst Daniel Wewer noted the concern. 


"... we now believe that WSM has a significant credibility issue with
the Street. In particular, we note that WSM held a full day,
well-attended investor and analyst meeting on Thursday, Sept. 28th and
made no indication that sales were slowing. In our opinion, WSM could
have more effectively used this event to warn investors of the problems
in the their (third quarter) business," the note said.
   -Philana Patterson, Dow Jones Newswires, 201-938-5360


Document dj00000020010805dwa903sdh
?
 

REVIEW & PREVIEW
 REVIEW & PREVIEW 

 Edited by Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal 
2,196 words
9 October 2000
Barron's
B
12
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Last Week 


                     Dow Indicator



Dow Industrials       10,596.54    -54.38
Dow World Index          224.33     -4.20
30-Year Treasury Bonds    5.816%   -0.064



DEBATE FATIGUE:



What Will Determine the Vote?



It Ain't Necessarily the Economy



When Vice President Al Gore and Texas Governor George W. Bush slug it
out in the presidential debates again this week, there's something they
should keep in mind: "It's the stock market, stupid."



Before the first debate last Tuesday, Gibbons Burke, editor of
markethistory.com, penned a piece on market performance during the
pre-Election Day debate season. Focusing on the modern presidential
debate era, starting with the 1960 Kennedy-Nixon race, he found that in
five of seven instances, both the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the
S&P 500 rose an average of more than 3% from the time of the first
presidential debate through Election Day.



But what about the market's direction as a predictive measure for who
will win? In September, Yale Hirsch, editor of the Stock Trader's
Almanac, noted a strong correlation between the Dow's performance in the
months before the election and whether the incumbent party wins. Burke
ran the numbers, and found the Dow has risen an average of 6.8% in the
three months prior to Election Day when the incumbent party has won.
Indeed, of the past 16 incumbent party victories, the market has dipped
only once, when Eisenhower was re-elected in 1956. That year, the Dow
fell 3.6%.



This year, the Dow is up about 1.5% from three months prior to
Election Day, but Burke notes that the market, which has been kind of
flat and flopping around, "has been characteristic of either the
incumbent party losing or a Democrat winning." That doesn't help much in
predicting this election, since Gore is a Democrat from the incumbent
party.



In all but two of the 16 times the incumbent party reclaimed the
White House, Burke says the Dow moved up an average 13.5% from the start
of the year to the election.



Burke also did some research on what happens to the market after
Election Day when the incumbent party wins, and found the average
trading move 10 days later is 2.4% on the upside. Hoover, in 1928, had
the biggest bump of all, with the market rising 14.8% just 17 days after
the election. Moreover, Burke's research shows that the market rises on
average when the winning incumbent party is Republican, but falls on
average when it is Democratic.



Not So Fast:



Nonfarm payrolls rose an unexpected 252,000 in September, after two
months of decline, skewed by layoffs of census workers and the Verizon
strike. Save for that, September's gain would have been 204,000 after a
152,000 rise in August, Merrill Lynch said. The unemployment rate fell
to 3.9%, from 4.1%, though Merrill said it was misleading, because it
resulted from a labor-force shrinkage.



Steady, Maybe for a While:



The Fed left interest rates unchanged, but said it still believes
risks to the economy are weighted mainly toward heightened inflation. It
cited rising oil prices as a serious threat that could push rates
higher. The unemployment report dashed hopes the Fed might ease anytime
soon. Meanwhile, the European Central Bank raised a key interest rate by
a quarter of a percentage point.



Tough Call:



A profit warning by Dell Computer helped push the Nasdaq down, ending
the week at 3361, off 8.5%. Other tech companies, like Razorfish and
Marimba, also fell after warnings. The Dow retreated 54 points, to
10,596.



You Win Some . . .



Time Warner and EMI Group withdrew plans for a $20 billion joint
venture, in the face of opposition by European antitrust officials. But
Time Warner's $135 billion merger with America Online is now expected to
be approved by the EC next week.



Re-engineering Returns:



AT&T management proposed a spinoff of its consumer long-distance
business, The Wall Street Journal reported, while Xerox's CEO, Paul
Allaire, told investors the company has an "unsustainable business
model" and that it will sell unnamed assets to improve its balance
sheet.



Busy Banks:



Firstar agreed to buy U.S. Bancorp in an $18.9 billion stock swap,
while FleetBoston Financial confirmed it will pay $7 billion in stock to
purchase Summit Bancorp. But First Union, which has a policy of not
commenting on merger rumors, said "there is absolutely no truth to the
rumor that First Union is or has been engaged in merger discussions with
Wells Fargo."



Going, Going, Gone:



Priceline.com founder Jay Walker said he was closing down Priceline
WebHouse Club, the grocery and gas version of his name-your-price
airline ticket service, because it has run out of money.



Art World Intrigue:



Sotheby's Holdings former CEO, Diana D. Brooks, pleaded guilty to
conspiring to violate antitrust laws, but blamed her onetime boss, A.
Alfred Taubman, for directing her to meet with Christie's
representatives to fix prices on commissions charged to sellers. Taubman
said: "Whatever Ms. Brooks chose to do, she did on her own, without my
knowledge or approval." He also said that he would defend himself
"vigorously" if the need arises.



Oops!



WorldCom CEO Bernard Ebbers said he plans to sell three million
shares, or 11%, of his holdings in the telecom company, for $78 million
to cover a margin call. The news pushed WorldCom down to $25.19, near
its 52-week low.



Hot Spots:



Israeli police stormed a site holy to Jews and Moslems in Jerusalem,
amid continued conflict with Palestinians. But the U.S. said Israeli and
Palestinian negotiators have agreed in principle to resume the peace
process once calm is restored. Meanwhile, ousted Yugoslav leader
Slobodan Milosevic conceded defeat to Vojislav Kostunica in last month's
presidential election, after the opposition seized control of the
capital.



Odds 'n' Ends:



-- PepsiCo CEO Roger Enrico will step down by the end of next year;
COO Steve Reinemund will succeed him.



-- Owens Corning filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection; ditto
Grand Union.



-- News Corp. named Lachlan Murdoch, son of Chairman Rupert Murdoch,
deputy chief operating officer.



This Week



              Coming U.S. Auctions Yields
                             When      Last
DAY                         Issued    Auction
 T  $11 bil.    3-month      6.075%    6.075%
    $10 bil.    6-month      6.06%     6.040%
 W  $5 bil.     30-yr TIPS   3.925%    3.899%
  *As of Friday afternoon.



TOBACCO'S ROAD?



Marlboro Country May Be a Bit



Harder to Find After This



Just when cigarette companies seem to be putting their domestic legal
troubles behind them, along comes the World Health Organization on a
tobacco-control initiative that it plans to negotiate with its 191
member countries. This week, it will hold its first hearings on the
issue in Geneva.



"Once and for all, the official position of the tobacco companies
will be in the public eye," says Dr. Derek Yach, head of WHO's
tobacco-control program. The agency will be "looking for these companies
to extend domestic changes [in marketing and advertising] to other
countries." Yach says WHO will "in general" accept recommendations from
its recent scathing report on the industry, which calls for limiting
tobacco companies' influence on WHO and helping members decide whether
to take legal action against them.



Though the hearings probably won't affect tobacco stocks, an eventual
treaty could be significant, particularly because growth in cigarette
consumption has been flat to down in the First World, while it is rising
in many Third World countries, says Martin Feldman, tobacco analyst at
Salomon Smith Barney. "No doubt the WHO is going to become more of a
thorn in the side of the industry," Feldman comments.



Philip Morris will testify, voicing its "general support" for the
so-called framework convention provided it protects adults' right to
smoke, a spokesman says. The company, which wants to extend talks with
WHO, has about 14% of the international market, but derives a majority
of its income from Europe, which is highly regulated in many areas. (A
European court just overturned a ban on tobacco ads.) R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco submitted a statement, but a spokesman says "our ability to have
any input into this has been limited." He notes that Reynolds, which
last year sold its international operations, is now mainly a domestic
company.



The final treaty will take years to hammer out. Meanwhile, Feldman
says, "cash flows over the next few decades remain incredibly strong and
attractive" at the tobacco companies, whose shares trade at single-digit
earnings multiples. Even Yach, who says WHO would love the companies to
go away, acknowledges that "there are 1.2 billion smokers in the world
that have a demand to have their craving met."



ONE DAY THIS WEEK



-- General Electric posts earnings for the third quarter, which
analysts forecast rising to 32 cents a share from 27 cents in the
previous year's quarter.



-- The Nobel Prizes are awarded in medicine, chemistry, physics,
economics and peace.



MONDAY



-- Markets are closed in Japan and Canada. In the U.S., the bond
market and interest-rate and currency-futures markets on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange are closed in observance of Columbus Day. Stock
markets are open, although trading may be light because of the Jewish
holiday of Yom Kippur.



-- EU foreign ministers discuss lifting sanctions in Yugoslavia.



TUESDAY



-- Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers addresses a transportation
symposium.



-- Dallas Fed President Robert McTeer speaks in Houston about trade,
while Kansas City Fed President Thomas Hoenig talks about monetary
policy in Albuquerque.



-- Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, testifies
about the central bank's monetary policy to a House of Lords committee.



-- The International Energy Agency issues its monthly oil report.



-- Commerzbank Securities hosts a Neuer Markt conference in New York,
with 23 German companies participating.



WEDNESDAY



-- Presidential hopefuls Al Gore and George W. Bush face off in their
second of three debates.



-- The German Bundesbank holds a discussion on "Rate of Exchange,
Currency Value Stability, Employment and the Euro" in Frankfurt.



-- Lattice Semiconductor splits its shares, 2-for-1, at the close.
Market heavyweights, including SEC Chairman Arthur Levitt and honchos
from the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq, attend the Security
Traders Association's meeting in Florida, which starts today.



THURSDAY



-- Dallas Fed President McTeer speaks there about "The Goldilocks
Economy."



-- Shareholders of U.S. Airways vote on whether to adopt a merger
agreement with UAL.



-- Oracle and PurchasePro.com split their shares, 2-for-1.



-- Ciena meets with analysts in Baltimore; Vivendi does likewise in
Paris.



-- Staffers at the FCC address the issue of "open access" for
competing Internet service providers, in relation to America Online's
proposed merger with Time Warner.



-- Paul Roye, director of the SEC's investment management division,
addresses a Washington symposium sponsored by Fund Democracy.



FRIDAY



-- Producer prices advanced 0.5% in September, after falling 0.2% in
August, while retail sales rose 0.6% last month, after increasing 0.3%
in August, the consensus says.



-- The European Commission's antitrust arm is expected to approve a
$34 billion merger of Vivendi and Seagram.



SUNDAY



-- The Chicago Board of Trade and the Eurex expand trading hours on
their joint electronic derivatives-trading platform to 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.
CDT.



---
                    COMING EARNINGS
                           Consensus      Year
DAY                        Estimate       Ago
 M  Abbott Labs (3Q)        $0.42        $0.38
    Biogen (3Q)              0.43         0.39
    Gannett (3Q)             0.78         0.70
    Int'l Paper (3Q)         0.52         0.46
    Motorola (3Q)            0.26         0.16
    Yahoo (3Q)               0.12         0.07
 T  Adv Micro Devices (3Q)   0.62        (0.36)
    Appl Micro Circs (2Q)    0.23         0.08
    Bestfoods (3Q)           0.69         0.64
    Delphi Auto Sys (3Q)     0.26         0.24
    Fannie Mae (3Q)          1.08         0.94
    Harley-Davidson (3Q)     0.26         0.21
 W  Bausch & Lomb (3Q)       0.70         0.64
    Costco Wholesale (3Q)    0.43         0.39
    Cummins Engine (3Q)      0.65         1.35
    Dow Jones (3Q)           0.54         0.50
    Gateway (3Q)             0.46         0.35
    Gen'l Motors (3Q)        1.58         1.33
    Guidant (3Q)             0.39         0.32
    Juniper Networks (3Q)    0.09        (0.01)
    KLA-Tencor (1Q)          0.51         0.19
    Lam Research (1Q)        0.43         0.19
    Maytag (3Q)              0.74         0.92
    New York Times (3Q)      0.37         0.36
    PMC-Sierra (3Q)          0.26         0.13
    Veritas Software (3Q)    0.14         0.19
    VISX (3Q)                0.18         0.36
Th  Auto Data Proc (1Q)      0.27         0.23
    Boise Cascade (3Q)       0.44         0.74
    Flextronics (2Q)         0.43         0.29
    *Gen'l Electric (3Q)     0.32         0.27
  (Earnings are diluted and report dates are tentative.) *One day
during week.
  Source: First Call/Thomson Financial (www.firstcall.com)
---
                       CONSENSUS ESTIMATE
Day  Time                             Consensus   Last
                                      Estimate    Period
 W   10:00  August Wholesale
            Inventories               0.5%        0.3%
 F    8:30  Sept. PPI                 0.5%       -0.2%
            Sept. Retail Sales        0.6%        0.3%
  Unless otherwise indicated, times are a.m. Eastern.
  Source: Bloomberg News.


Document b000000020010803dwa9001uc
?
 

 BUSINESS 
 LUCENT VIES TO WIN BACK CUSTOMERS CEO RICH MCGINN SEEKS TO TURN AROUND A YEAR OF STRATEGIC BLUNDERS AND DELAYS. LUCENT CEO RICH MCGINN KEPT PROBLEMS HIDDEN, AND THE COMPANY'S STOCK PLUNGED WHEN HE ANNOUNCED IN JANUARY THAT IT WOULD FALL SHORT OF EARNINGS ESTIMATES. 

 The Morning Call 
3,099 words
8 October 2000
Allentown Morning Call
XALL
SECOND
D01
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 Joe Nacchio, chief executive of Qwest Communications International Inc., was in a bind. 

 As competition to handle the explosion of Internet use heated up last year, Nacchio found himself scrambling for more fiber-optic equipment to bulk up Qwest's data network. His lone supplier, Nortel Networks Corp., was sold out. 

 Facing a logjam that could bog down service and drive away customers such as America Online Inc., Nacchio rang up Lucent Technologies Inc. CEO Rich McGinn, a former colleague in AT&T Corp.'s executive suite. 

 It was a timely call. Unlike the plodding Baby Bells that Lucent sold to, Qwest was moving fast, and McGinn was ready to make promises for a share of the billions the company was spending on Nortel gear. 

 When Nacchio said he needed equipment installed by January to handle a surge in data flowing from Los Angeles to New York, McGinn took the rush job. It was July 1999. 

 Six months later, the agreement lay in tatters. Qwest was ripping out Lucent's gear, and Nacchio was looking elsewhere after getting some products late and others that didn't work. He took funds earmarked for the Lucent equipment and bought what he needed from smaller Ciena Corp. in time to avoid a capacity crunch. 

 The episode says a lot about how the AT&T spin-off -- once lauded by Wall Street, revered by customers, and feared by rivals -- lost its edge. The 57 percent plunge in Lucent's stock this year is a vivid reminder of just how far the world's biggest maker of telecommunications equipment has fallen. 

 Strategic blunders and delays in converting research from its renowned Bell Laboratories into marketable products left Lucent behind in fiber optics, the hottest market in communications. Then, hundreds of engineers quit, hobbling the company just as Nortel was ready with optical gear. 

 Development of a new voice switch for traditional phone companies dragged on longer than Lucent planned, holding back sales of the devices that can fetch millions of dollars apiece. 

 Investors had no idea anything was awry. McGinn kept the problems hidden -- as Lucent's stock rose to records -- by making up for the lack of revenue from new products with sales of the voice equipment that had built Lucent's reputation and generated a fifth of its $38.3 billion in fiscal 1999 sales. 

 When customers slowed purchases of voice gear and related software last year to focus on data networks, McGinn had to fess up. 

 In a late-day press release on Jan. 6, Lucent said earnings per share in the quarter that had ended in December fell unexpectedly, lagging the company's own estimates by a third. Lucent's first-ever profit warning sent its shares tumbling 23 percent the next day, erasing $50 billion of market value. 

 That was just the beginning. Lucent warned in July that profit would miss estimates in the fourth quarter ending in September and would drop 15 percent in the next period. In all, McGinn slashed four quarters of profit forecasts in the middle of the biggest boom in telecommunications history. 

 `Anytime you surprise that way it puts you in the penalty box,` said portfolio manager Ken Turek of Northern Trust Corp., which held 21.2 million Lucent shares on June 30. `Lucent ratcheted down from being a tier-one company to something else.` 

 Could this be the Lucent whose IPO wowed investors in April 1996? The then biggest U.S. initial stock sale raised $3 billion for 18 percent of AT&T's telecommunications equipment business. Optimism that the two-month-old U.S. Telecommunications Act would unleash an era of unbridled phone company expansion spurred record first-day trading. 

 The plucky spinoff went on to beat profit estimates 15 quarters in a row. Lucent's stock, the second most widely held in the U.S., soared to a peak of $84.1875 on Dec. 9, 1999, from a split-adjusted IPO price of $6.75 -- a gain of 1,147 percent. By closing on Friday, the shares had dropped to $33.31, after dipping to $28.875 on Wednesday. Investors were reeling from the shortfalls and relentless advances of Nortel, Ciena, and Cisco Systems Inc. 

 The swoon has left a deeper scar: A depressed stock makes it harder for Lucent to keep up with archrival Nortel, which is using shares that have surged as much as 76 percent this year to buy start- ups with hot products and engineers. 

 `We're always crossing things off the shopping list,` said Bill O'Shea, the executive vice president in charge of acquisitions. `Do we cross off more now than before? Sure.` 

 It's no wonder that McGinn, 54, is hustling to make changes. The former AT&T salesman who joined Illinois Bell in 1969 knows he needs to deliver on promises to big companies like Qwest and impress the young carriers that abandoned Lucent when it failed to supply new products on time. 

 ClearData Communications, a start-up in Phoenix, went to Nortel for $300 million of fiber-optic and data-networking gear in August, even though it's 5 percent owned by Lucent. `They didn't have the right equipment and didn't indicate that they wanted more of our business,` said Ric Tarbox, ClearData chief operating officer. `Nortel put on the full-court press.` 

 McGinn's solution is to focus on five areas: equipment for both voice and data networks; fiber-optic transmission systems; wireless communications; and services such as network design. He's unveiled plans to spin off or sell the rest of Lucent: businesses that employ a third of its 150,000 workers and generated more than 30 percent of sales in the fiscal year ending in September 1999. 

 Until this year, U.S. accounting rules governing Lucent's own spin- off prevented it from divesting major assets. Now, as if he's going through a box of old toys, McGinn is looking at every bit of Lucent to decide what to keep and what to discard. 

 Gone is Avaya Inc., a maker of office phone and data systems that was spun off to Lucent shareholders last week and began trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Next is Allentown-based Microelectronics, the semiconductor and fiber-optic components unit. Lucent plans to sell 20 percent of the business by the end of March in an IPO that analysts say could raise as much as $15 billion and become, like its parent's had been in 1996, the biggest IPO in U.S. history. Lucent will spin off the rest. 

 McGinn also may sell or shutter factories in Oklahoma City and Columbus, Ohio, and let other companies do Lucent's manufacturing. Power Systems, a maker of power supplies for communications networks, went on the block in May. 

 `The idea that we could be the leader in 18 different areas probably isn't the right way to think,` said McGinn, who rises at 4:30 a.m. to plot his moves on long walks near his Bernardsville, N.J., home and then scans the Internet for information on rivals and customers before arriving at the office in nearby Murray Hill about 7:30 a.m. 

 McGinn is wagering that a narrower focus will make it easier for Lucent to go head-to-head with Nortel and Cisco in a worldwide market for communications equipment he estimates will double to $450 billion in five years. 

 The strategy worked once before. As Lucent was being spun off, McGinn, then president, and Chief Executive Henry Schacht cut a fifth of the company's workers, sold marginal businesses such as a unit devoted to defense systems, and expanded overseas. Sales rose 13 percent in Lucent's first year and 21 percent in fiscal 1998 to $31.8 billion. 

 The spinoff was completed in September 1996. McGinn was named CEO in October 1997 and chairman three months later. Schacht is now chairman of Avaya. 

 This time, McGinn's goal is to finish reshaping the business next summer, less than 18 months after starting in March. `We have to be relentless,` he said. 

 McGinn pitched his strategy in August to Lucent's top 20 executives, mostly AT&T veterans. In a windowless boardroom in Warren, N.J., he told them that Lucent has an opportunity as great as when it became independent. `No one should doubt our ability to re- energize this business,` he said. `We're sitting on a gold mine.` 

 To speed the process -- and to inject some fresh thinking -- McGinn is appointing outsiders to replace executives he dismissed and others who quit or retired. 

 He personally recruited Debby Hopkins, who'd been chief financial officer at Boeing Co. for 16 months, over dinner at his home. She became Lucent's CFO in April. In August, he promoted Jeong Kim to president of fiber optics from No. 2 in the unit. Now McGinn is searching for an operating chief. 

 Some investors question whether McGinn can accomplish the latest overhaul without losing more ground to Nortel, which is free of major distractions. 

 `We're not convinced what they're doing is working,` said Erick Weis, who manages the $5.3 billion Omega Fund at Ohio Public Employees Retirement System. Weis reduced his Lucent position in January after the first profit warning. 

 McGinn has said revenue will increase 20 percent next year, a target some analysts say is too high. Nortel is predicting at least 30 percent growth for its business. 

 If not apologetic, McGinn has been contrite about Lucent's woes. On a conference call following the January profit warning, he listed reasons for the shortfall: A big customer had delayed purchases, sales of software for voice switches had fallen unexpectedly, and Lucent had been too late in seeing a shift to faster fiber-optic systems like Nortel's. 

 McGinn had painted a different picture at a company event two months earlier in Murray Hill, where he crowed that Lucent was leading or coming a close second in every market it served: from wireless to switching, to optical networking. What he didn't say then was that signs of trouble were emerging. In fiber optics, distressing signals had been there for years. 

 Lucent was an early leader in fiber optics, harnessing the speed of light for telecommunications by using tiny lasers to beam information on hair-thin strands of glass known as optical fiber. Scientists at Bell Labs invented a device to convert electrons into photons -- the magic of fiber optics -- in 1974. Advances in the 1980s spawned products like under-sea cable. 

 Whatever edge Lucent had in those days was gone by 1996. That's when Ciena, seemingly out of nowhere, introduced a device that put five times as many calls on a piece of fiber as Lucent's best equipment. The breakthrough was a shock, not least because it won Ciena a trial at AT&T the following summer, putting a sale by Lucent to its former parent and best customer at risk. 

 The threat from a new rival roused Lucent into action. With McGinn's backing, two dozen of the company's top marketers and engineers checked into the Courtyard Lincroft, a Marriott hotel in Red Bank, N.J., in August 1997 for 10 days of secret brainstorming. `It became a personal challenge,` said Kathy Szelag, a vice president of marketing who took part. 

 On the group's recommendation, McGinn and Schacht made a decision they would live to regret: to cut spending on speedier lasers and electronics in favor of developing a product with more capacity -- like building a bigger car instead of a faster one. 

 While the design was more advanced than anything Ciena had, within a year it became clear Lucent had chosen the wrong path. Aggressive carriers with big spending plans, including Qwest and Williams Communications Group Inc., were shunning Linthicum, Md.-based Ciena and Lucent to sign up with Nortel, which had developed a system four times as fast. Qwest was among the earliest buyers; it ordered $150 million of Nortel gear in May 1997 and added $600 million in June 1999. 

 The emphasis on speed catapulted Brampton, Ontario-based Nortel over Lucent to No. 1 in fiber-optic equipment in 1998, a lead it has since widened. Nortel got 43 percent of the $5.94 billion spent worldwide on fiber optics in the second quarter of 2000, almost triple the 15 percent Lucent got, according to researcher Dell'Oro Group in Portola Valley, California. 

 McGinn wants to ensure he doesn't make another wrong bet. He now spends 40 percent of his time on operations, more than double his involvement three months ago. `I'm working with people on network architecture, on going to market, on business strategies they're pursuing,` he said. `I'm being more demanding about the speed with which decisions are made.` 

 His approach suits CFO Hopkins, even if the mess at Lucent was bigger than she expected. Hopkins says she didn't plan on having to cut sales and profit estimates during her first conference call in the driver's seat. And given a choice, she would have taken a few quarters to understand Lucent before embarking on a major restructuring. 

 `I was handed a set of cards, and I'm making the most of the cards I've got,` she said. `This is not the order I would have put them in.` 

 Still, the 45-year-old is leaving her mark with a budgeting process that promises to ruffle some feathers among the old guard -- as it did at Boeing. Starting in October, all spending will be governed by strict guidelines on returns after the cost of capital is subtracted. Gone are the days of budget allocation based on persuasive arguments or seniority. 

 The change is bigger than it sounds. A factory that seemed profitable for years may no longer make the grade because it employs too many assets, Hopkins says. Other businesses, like services, will become more attractive because they occupy few buildings and require little equipment. 

 Hopkins hasn't identified areas with unacceptable returns yet, though she's found one business worth expanding. She says the opportunity to generate cash by servicing equipment that Lucent and others make is so compelling that Lucent will form a separate company to manage it. 

 `The car guys have figured out that all the value is in after- sales,` said Hopkins, who spent three years at General Motors Corp. before moving to Boeing. `The computer business figured this out 10 years ago.` 

 McGinn gave Hopkins's budgeting plan a thumbs-up the first time he heard it, two months after she arrived. `When I sat down with Rich, it took two nanoseconds. He said, 'Do it,'` she recalled. 

 Now she's doing even more, changing everything from supplier management to closing the books, a total of eight processes in all. The moves may help reduce inventories and speed collection of receivables, two areas of the balance sheet that analysts have criticized Lucent about. The company will introduce her new system starting in January, and in the December quarter, will take a charge that it hasn't yet calculated. 

 The budget fixes won't resolve every concern. GT Group Telecom Inc. CEO Dan Milliard has been waiting for Lucent to come through with a product it began touting in April 1999. Milliard wants to update the Canadian phone company's voice network for data and planned to install the 7R/E voice switch. Problem is, Lucent has told Milliard it won't begin shipping 7R/Es, which are as big as a minivan, until the end of the year. 

 `They've got people out there hawking wares that can't even be brought out of the labs yet,` he said. GT, which has Lucent financing but is free to buy products from any vendor, is now looking at some 7R/E alternatives from Nortel and Cisco. 

 McGinn tapped Bill O'Shea to eliminate such lags, promoting him to head of corporate strategy and business development in May. The new boss has started by stripping Lucent's 10 business units of planning responsibility in favor of a central authority. `When we're too slow, we're a quarter or two late,` O'Shea said. 

 Even though some companies, such as Network Associates Inc., are decentralizing product development, O'Shea is betting his plan will prevent the delays that resulted when Lucent units charted their own strategies. At times, Lucent developed products in such isolation that they were incompatible until engineers wrote a complicated piece of software to connect them. 

 Shaking up Bell Labs, arguably the world's most famous R&D center, is a tougher assignment. For decades, few, including McGinn, have dared to fiddle with a formula that yielded the laser, the transistor, the Unix operating system, and countless other innovations, as well as six Nobel prizes in physics. 

 The labs still get 11 cents of every dollar Lucent generates in sales -- a total of more than $4 billion last year -- a tenth of which is devoted to basic research like mathematics. 

 Now, McGinn wants O'Shea, who began his career in the labs in 1972, to meddle in a serious way. O'Shea intends to reorganize the scientists and engineers into groups that would see a product from invention to production. 

 That's a switch from today, when researchers work on several projects at once -- or none at all. Lucent may even let venture capitalists take a stake in and manage some projects to inject entrepreneurial verve and money. 

 `We have to relook at our whole R&D model,` O'Shea said. `If you look at a start-up, the same guy who wrote the Ph.D. paper is living in a cubicle and building a system.` 

 What O'Shea really means is changing the culture. Many engineers came to Bell Labs instead of going to Hewlett-Packard Co. or International Business Machines Corp. to escape the pressure to develop. 

 `I do what interests me and excites me,` said Gerard Holzmann, a stereotypical Bell Labs scientist with his scruffy beard, calculator watch, and plaid shirt. `I won't lose any sleep if nobody uses it.` 

Document xall000020010814dwa800smd
?
 

 TECH WEEK: WebHouse Tested Limits of Priceline Model 

 By JASON FRY and KRISTIN HUSSEY 
2,258 words
7 October 2000
02:45
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WSJ.com 

 NEW YORK--Pioneers get arrows in their backs. They also blaze trails that have a way of turning into highways for countless travelers to follow. 

 Priceline.com Inc. founder Jay Walker decided this week that he had enough arrows and moved to shut down Priceline WebHouse Club, a name-your-own-price outfit for groceries and gasoline. As Mr. Walker saw, the venture -- a closely held affiliate of Priceline.com -- didn't have enough time to escape its growing pains. WebHouse Club needed more funding to attract more customers. Once it had enough customers, it would be able to win discounts from consumer-products companies. But until then, the discounts were all coming out of WebHouse Club's hide. 

 Unfortunately, with tech stocks -- particularly online retailers -- still in the doldrums and consolidation the industry watchword, the funding Mr. Walker needed wasn't there. He poured about $179 million of his own money into the venture, but ultimately opted to shut down the service. The questions about WebHouse Club weren't only financial, however. Its grocery service did win accolades from users, with many testimonials coming from people surprised that the service was easier to use than they expected. But that was something of a left-handed compliment. The process -- including bidding on groceries in advance, taking the list to market and matching items -- remained counterintuitive and a substantial change from the way people normally shop. For some members the novelty simply wore off and they began to question whether the savings were really worth it. The gasoline service had some of the same problems -- while we don't like to admit it, many of us aren't organized enough to plot out our gas purchases in advance, regardless of the potential savings. 

 While this is, of course, all hindsight, the news about WebHouse Club would have been a jolt for Priceline under any conditions. Priceline's sales of airlines tickets, hotel rooms and car rentals have always been a stronger business than groceries and gasoline. But even that business has shown some cracks of late: Priceline has been struggling with renewed competition in its key business of selling airline tickets. (Perhaps most dangerous to Priceline is Hotwire, a discount-ticket site unveiled in concert by the airlines.) 

 Mr. Walker's taken a few arrows, but he ought to get some credit for being a pioneer. So far, he's tried the reverse-auction strategy in any number of markets -- besides travel-agency functions, Priceline is also trying its luck at long distance, home financing and selling new cars -- in effect, throwing different businesses at the reverse-auction wall and seeing what sticks. (WebHouse wasn't set up as a separate operation as a whim.) There's no guarantee that Priceline will be able to make any of them stick, but that doesn't mean -- as some will inevitably suggest -- that the model's no good. 

 Reverse auctions aren't the answer for every business, and even where they do work, they probably have only a limited role to play. But that role is there, and someone will make it work. Priceline may not get it right in all of its remaining businesses, or in any of them. But that's the risks involved in seeking new-business rewards. 

 Hardware and Software 

 International Business Machines Corp. will rebrand its entire line of corporate computers, calling them 'eServers,' in a bid to reduce customer confusion about IBM's various brands. 

 Xerox Corp.'s chief executive officer, Paul Allaire, told investors that the company has an 'unsustainable business model,' and that it will sell off assets to raise money and improve its balance sheet. 

 ASM Lithography agreed to buy U.S. rival Silicon Valley Group for $1.6 billion in stock, creating the leading provider of lithography equipment to the chip industry. 

 Microsoft Corp. agreed to invest $135 million in Corel Corp., a move that gives the software giant a large minority stake in the struggling Canadian company. Separately, Microsoft proposed a legal schedule for its antitrust appeal that would put off the first oral arguments in the case until next year. The Justice Department outlined a short timetable for debating the Microsoft antitrust case before a U.S. appeals court, and criticized the software giant's proposed schedule. Also, a former Microsoft manager has filed a discrimination lawsuit against the software company, alleging she was given a subpar evaluation by her boss because of his racial and gender bias and that she was later denied another job at the company. 

 Intuit Inc. announced a five-year agreement to adopt the online-payments technology of X.com, the operator of the PayPal personal payments system. 

 MKS Instruments Inc. agreed to buy Applied Science & Technology Inc. for about $300 million in stock, combining two suppliers of instruments and products used in semiconductor-chip manufacturing. Congress moved with unusual speed to approve legislation to boost the number of new visas over the next three years for skilled foreign workers sought by the high-tech industry. 

 Maxtor Corp. agreed to buy Quantum Corp.'s disk-drive business for about $1.1 billion in stock, in a bid to become the world's biggest maker of the data-storage products. 

 Tellme Networks Inc. has raised $125 million in its latest round of venture-capital funding, the largest investment to date in a new breed of voice-recognition services. 

 Broadcom Corp. plans to acquire British chipset developer Element 14 Inc. for $641.1 million in stock, marking another major deal for the communications-chip maker. 

 Internet and Online 

 EBay Inc. has partnered with America Online Inc. to launch its first significant effort to sell advertising on its Web site, a move which may prove to be a potentially lucrative new source of revenue for the online auctioneer. Record-industry attorneys who are seeking to curb the operations of Napster Inc., the online music site, faced tough questions from an appeals-court panel. 

 Cable & Wireless PLC said it is teaming with Nortel Networks Corp. to deliver voice services over the Internet in a $1.4 billion deal. 

 Amazon.com Inc. plans to launch a new Internet camera and photo store with online photo finisher Ofoto, in a move to compete with AOL's You've Got Pictures and Yahoo!'s photo service. 

 WebMD Corp. said chief technology officer Pavan Nigam is resigning to pursue other interests. Separately, the Internet health concern filed to register 15 million shares held by Janus Capital's mutual funds. 

 Mattel Inc. confirmed it is selling Learning Co. to Gores Technology for no cash up front, although Mattel will get a cut of any future Learning earnings. 

 NTT DoCoMo Inc. and America Online Inc. are beginning to lay the groundwork for broadening their alliance to Europe and the U.S., a DoCoMo official said. 

 DoubleClick Inc. agreed to acquire NetCreations Inc. for $166.4 million in stock, adding more e-mail marketing tools to the online advertising firm's arsenal. 

 Network Solutions Inc. will begin accepting domain-name registrations in the Chinese, Japanese and Korean languages, greatly expanding the industry's reach. 

 Vizzavi Ltd. will offer dial-up Internet access to its users through agreements with European service providers. Pricing will vary from market to market. Airlines are increasingly selling their tickets online, taking some business away from Internet travel agencies, in their bid to capture savvy travelers and save on commissions. 

 Fox News settled its lawsuit against TheStreet.com Inc. and company founder James Cramer, ending a spat between the television network and the online news provider. 

 China released a new set of rules for its Web companies, requiring them to re-register with the government and holding them responsible for all content on their sites. 

 Jeffrey Papows was named president and chief executive of Maptuit Corp. He resigned as head of Lotus Development earlier this year. 

 The publisher of U.K. sports site Worldsport.com was forced to close down three months after an unpaid tax bill forced the company into receivership. 

 More.com said it has laid off more than 30% of its work force in an effort to conserve cash, in the second round of job cuts this year for the online health and beauty-products store. 

 Sports portal SportsYA! Inc. (www.sportsya.com) cut its staff by 25% and said it raised a $10 million round of funding. U.S. officials used commercial software to break up what it said was a globe-spanning multimillion-dollar Internet fraud that overcharged online pornography consumers. 

 Telecommunications and Cable 

 AT&T Corp.'s management proposed spinning off its struggling consumer long-distance business to shareholders in what would be a significant step toward breaking up the telecom giant, it was reported. AT&T's board appears to be leaning in favor of such a move. 

 Lucent Technologies Inc. signed a five-year contract valued at more than $1 billion to supply the infrastructure for SBC Communication's nationwide network expansion. 

 U.S. regulators are expanding their review of the America Online Inc. and Time Warner Inc. merger to include TV set-top boxes. Also, electronics retailers asked for government help in opening up the market for cable-television set-top boxes, an issue in the proposed merger. 

 Time Warner and EMI Group PLC scrapped plans for a $20 billion music joint venture following tough antitrust scrutiny in Europe. 

 Telefonica SA signed a preliminary pact to buy five Mexican wireless operators from Motorola Inc. for $2.62 billion, enabling the Spanish company to create a wireless network across Latin America. Also, Telefonica confirmed it is in talks with Motorola to acquire the U.S. company's wireless assets in six countries, including Brazil and Lithuania. European regulators should give final approval to Vivendi SA's proposed merger with Seagram Co. of Canada by mid-October, the French company's chairman said. 

 Deutsche Telekom AG's proposed $50 billion purchase of VoiceStream Wireless Corp. got a boost Thursday from unions and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 

 Britain's Vodafone Group PLC is purchasing $2.5 billion in shares of China Mobile Telecommunications Ltd.'s Hong Kong unit. Vodafone beat its global rivals with its deal to take a 2% stake in China Mobile. The deal shows the growing importance of the world's No. 2 telecom market to the industry's biggest players. 

 British Telecom PLC said its finance director, Robert Brace, will leave and be succeeded by Philip Hampton, currently at U.K. energy company BG Group. 

 A judge agreed to expedite a lawsuit filed by a major Digex Inc. investor, who claims shareholder rights were trampled when Intermedia Communications Inc., which owns 55% of Digex, agreed to be bought by WorldCom Corp. 

 Initial Public Offerings 

 Fiber optics were hot with new-issues investors, pushing shares of Oplink Communications Inc. up 87% in their first day of trading. 

 Asia Global Crossing Ltd.'s IPO got off to a rocky start, with underwriters pricing the deal below expectations and scaling back the number of shares to be sold to the public. 

 TTP Communications PLC priced its offering of shares on the London Stock Exchange at $3.54 a share, valuing the company at $782.2 million. 

 Earnings 

 Apple Computer Inc.'s shares plunged 52% in one session following a profit warning. Some analysts concluded that Apple is continuing to lose ground in its educational segment. 

 ATI Technologies Inc. posted a loss in its fiscal fourth quarter, but the Canadian chip maker managed to top analysts' expectations. 

 Computer Associates International Inc. said it expects to report earnings for its fiscal first quarter ended Sept. 30 at the low end of the range of analysts' estimates and down 28% to 33% from a year earlier. 

 Dell Computer Corp. warned that quarterly revenue won't meet estimates due to weak sales in Europe and to the U.S. government. Its stock fell 9% in after-hours trading. Harmonic Inc., a communications-products maker, said slower sales from cable customers will mean a loss from operations in the third and fourth quarters. 

 Imation Corp. said it will report lower-than-expected third-quarter results and that it has engaged Goldman, Sachs & Co. to explore strategic alternatives. 

 Micron Technology Inc. rebounded from a year-earlier loss to post net income that beat analysts' estimates by 24 cents a share, helped by strong semiconductor sales. 

 Marimba Inc. said it will report an unexpected third-quarter loss and lower-than-anticipated sales. 

 Net2Phone Inc. reported its revenue more than doubled in its fourth quarter but the Internet-telephone-service provider's loss from operations soared. 

 Razorfish Inc. warned that third-quarter operating earnings for the Web-design and consulting firm will likely be much lower than analysts anticipated. 

 Veeco Instruments Inc. warned that quarterly earnings will be lower than anticipated and said its president and chief operating officer resigned. 

 Wanadoo SA posted a net loss of $58.1 million in the first half, and sales came in at the lower end of expectations, but the firm said revenue would accelerate in the second half. 

 Xerox Corp. said it expects to report a loss of 15 cents to 20 cents a share for the third quarter. The announcement surprised investors, who sent its shares down 18% in after-hours trading. 

 Write to Jason Fry at jason.fry@wsj.com and Kristin Hussey at kristin.hussey@wsj.com 

Document dj00000020010805dwa703ry2
?
 

 Marimba shares fall 50 pct after earnings warning. 

208 words
6 October 2000
17:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 6 (Reuters) - Shares of Marimba Inc. lost more than half their value on Friday, a day after the Internet-based software company warned of lower-than-expected revenues and a greater-than-expected loss in the third quarter. 

 The Mountain View, Calif., company's stock tumbled $6-1/4, or more than 56 percent, to $4-7/8 in midday trading on Nasdaq, where it was the top percentage loser. 

 Earlier the stock had fallen to an all-time low of $4-1/4. Its previous low had been $10-11/16 and the stock's 52-week high is $68-7/8. 

 Late Thursday the company said problems with closing sales transactions would cause its results to fall short of expectations. The company said it expected some of those missed transactions to be completed in the fourth quarter. 

 Following the profit warning, Chase H&Q analyst Jack Ripsteen lowered his rating on the stock to market perform from buy. 

 "We believe that visibility into the pipeline of customers and timing of deals is somewhat cloudy," Ripsteen said in a statement. 

 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter also cut its rating on the stock to neutral from outperform. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa60599o
?
 

 WORLD BONDS-After downgrades, telecom uncertainty seen. 

 By Catherine Evans 
644 words
6 October 2000
17:02
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Oct 6 (Reuters) - Telecoms bondholders may be set for a period of ratings stability following Deutsche Telekom's downgrading this week but sales of new debt are set to pressure spreads further going into the end of the year. 

 Bankers were bearish on telecoms on Friday, saying that expected multibillion dollar bond sales from France Telecom, British Telecom and Telecom Italia were set to weigh on the secondary market. 

 Fears that poor conditions in global equity markets will stymie urgently-needed disposals and recent worries raised by regulators about the level of bank lending to the sector might also undermine any potential recovery. 

 "There is an uncertainty premium still in the market and I don't expect spreads to be dynamic in either direction until planned new issuance has been completed," said Felix Kaiser, a telecoms analyst at Goldman Sachs in London. 

 "After that, in late 2000 or early 2001, we should see spreads recovering, although much lower ratings mean they are unlikely to recoup all the ground they have lost." Europe's dominant telecoms companies have seen their ratings tumble from double-A, the second-highest ratings bracket, to single-A following the completion on August 17 of Germany's 50.5 billion euro auction of UMTS mobile phone licences. 

 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System technology, licences for which are being sold by governments across Europe, allows the high-speed delivery of wireless Internet services. Across-the-board ratings cuts were completed on Friday, when Standard & Poor's downgraded Deutsche Telekom to A-, at the bottom of the single-A bracket, from AA-. 

 Rival Moody's Investors Service made a similar move on Thursday, cutting the Bonn-headquartered giant to A2 from Aa2. 

 RATINGS STABILITY DEPENDS ON DISPOSALS Both rating firms warned that Deutsche Telekom could fall further if plans to reduce its mountain of debt via asset disposals fell short of expectations. 

 S&P, which has taken a very cautious stance on the benefits to be reaped from investment in UMTS networks, has issued similar warnings to other companies, notably BT. 

 Analysts were divided over the risk of further downgrades in the telecoms sector. Goldman's Kaiser said the 12 to 18 month timescale agreed with the rating agencies would give at least a year's breathing-space, but other felt equity market volatility might prove problematic. 

 "Telecoms' credit quality is too closely linked to the capricious fortunes of the equity markets, which are saying quite clearly at the moment that they don't like them," said Andrei Gorodilov, telecoms analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 "Companies are precariously balanced and will have to work hard over the next six to nine months to maintain their ratings." 

 BT postponed a planned debt issue of up to $10 billion in August as a result of uncertainty over its rating outlook, but - now rated A2/A - is expected to revive the sale once the market has absorbed the sector's lower ratings. 

 France Telecom is expected to raise a similar amount via a multicurrency debt sale, while Telecom Italia said this week it planned to borrow at least $5 billion next month. 

 The bond sales will follow hefty September transactions from Spain's Telefonica and Dutch KPN, as well as Deutsche Telekom's record $14.6 billion bond sale in June. 

 The latter transactions were all well-received, but telecoms spreads have spiralled wider since the KPN deal and analysts said they were unlikely to pick up until the remaining paper has been absorbed. 

 "The market remains uneasy and it could take only a profit-warning, or a higher than expected UMTS bid in Italy, to make it unravel. People are trying to guess where the next hit will come from," said CSFB's Gorodilov. Italy begins its UMTS auction next week. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa60590x
?
 

 UPDATE 2-Alcoa profit climbs in line with lowered estimates. 

 By Martin Howell 
680 words
6 October 2000
02:52
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (adds byline, changes dateline, updates with comment from analysts and closing stock price) 

 NEW YORK, Oct 5 (Reuters) - Alcoa Inc. , the world's largest producer of aluminum, on Thursday said its third-quarter earnings rose 42 percent, matching Wall Street estimates that were lowered after the company issued a profit warning last month. 

 Alcoa earnings have been boosted by cost cutting, higher aluminum prices and contributions from its acquisitions this year of Reynolds Metals Co. and Cordant Technologies. However, growth has been trimmed by higher energy costs and a softening in demand for aluminum, a metal used in everything from cans and cars to building materials, in major industrial markets. 

 Pittsburgh-based Alcoa earned $368 million, or 42 cents per diluted share, in the third quarter ended Sept. 30, up from $259 million, or 35 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. 

 Analysts' consensus earnings estimate was 42 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. The consensus forecast was cut from 49 cents after Alcoa warned on Sept. 18 that it expected earnings of 40 to 43 cents a share. 

 The outcome may have disappointed some investors who thought the company would beat expectations as it often has in the recent past, analysts said. "There may have been some thought that they would beat the lowered Street estimates by a little bit," said Fraser Phillips, mining analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. 

 Shares in Alcoa, the first of the 30 companies whose stocks make up the Dow Jones industrial average to report third-quarter results, finished down 3/16 at $27-1/16 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The shares have picked up in the past week after falling to a 52-week low of $23-5/16 on Sept. 27, but they are still more than 60 percent below their 52-week high of $43-5/8, reached in January. 

 In the earnings report, Alcoa Chief Executive Alain Belda said that in the fourth quarter the company would continue to benefit from its acquisitions, cost cutting and the seasonal strength of its packaging business. 

 But he cautioned that "we also expect softness to continue in the construction, transportation, building and distribution markets and see no relief from the higher energy prices." 

 Alcoa's natural gas and fuel oil bill was $70 million higher in the first nine months of this year. The company uses natural gas and fuel oil to convert bauxite, the raw ore, into alumina, which is then used to make aluminum. 

 Rising electricity prices are also a threat to Alcoa as aluminum production requires a lot of electricity. 

 Alcoa said its third-quarter revenue rose 55 percent from a year earlier to $6.3 billion. After-tax operating income from its alumina and chemicals, primary metals, flat-rolled products and packaging and consumer divisions all rose in the quarter from the second quarter, but income from its engineered products operation dropped. 

 Declines in shipments by its flat-rolled and engineered products divisions in the third quarter reflected slowing growth in demand in the U.S., particularly from truck makers, and could signal further weakness ahead, analysts said. 

 "To the extent that these businesses continue to face a slowing in economic activity there is a potential for some squeezing in margins," said Phillips. 

 However, Alcoa could easily get a boost in the next year as there is a good chance the price of aluminum will rise because global stockpiles have sunk, said Daniel Roling, senior metals and mining analyst at Merrill Lynch. 

 The company said that by the end of the second quarter it had achieved $924 million in annualized cost savings toward its previously announced target of $1.1 billion by January 2001. 

 In the earnings report, Alcoa indicated that it is only confident of achieving the target if the higher natural gas and fuel oil costs are excluded from the equation. 

 "Those costs are beyond their control," said Roling. "The commitment they made on costs is being met." 

Document lba0000020010821dwa60564d
?
 Company Results: PHOTOBITION - Display Graphics And Media Servs Supplier - 

302 words
6 October 2000
Investors Chronicle
INVR
65
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 Investors Chronicle; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Problems welding its four New York offices into one led Photobition to issue a profit warning in July. In fact the new office contributed just US$1m (GBP676,000m) to profits, against $8m expected. The company says the snags have been ironed out, but ABN Amro has nudged its full-year forecast down - it now expects pre-tax profits of GBP25.1m and earnings of 17.5p. 

 Photobition made 11 acquisitions during the year and now has most of its US network in place. The acquisitions added GBP27m to turnover and GBP5m to operating profits. In the UK, which is the only territory capable of a meaningful comparison, like-for-like sales were ahead 21 per cent in a market growing at 10 per cent. The company will spend the next year consolidating its position after a long period of expansion. 


Ord price: 223p                 Market value: GBP221mTouch: 220-225p
12 month High: 556p   Low: 165pDividend yield: 0.8%            PE ratio:
24Net asset value: 77p*           Net debt: 105%**Includes intangibles
of GBP102m or 106p a shareYear to   Turnover   Pre-tax       Stated
earnings    Net div per30 Jun    (GBPm)       profit (GBPm)   per share
(p)      share (p)1996**     16.9       2.90          3.75
1.301997**     23.4       4.11          5.23              1.401998*
57.7       9.84         11.20              1.881999       91.0
14.00         11.40              1.632000      147.0      15.70
9.23              1.76% change  +62        +12           -19
+8* 15 months     ** year-end 31 MarchLast IC comment: 25 February 2000,
page 64     xd: 4 Dec



IC VIEW



Too many companies have tripped up in the past by trying to expand too
quickly. Photobition is learning this lesson, but the market is likely
to remain cautious for some time. Fairly priced.


Document invr000020010807dwa6004aa
?
 

 Nasdaq Falls 3.2%, Pulling Market Lower as Profit Worries Prevail 

 By David Runk 
1,070 words
6 October 2000
14:49
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WSJ.com 

 NEW YORK -- Stocks dropped Friday as earnings warnings in the technology sector pressured Wall Street after the latest employment report offered mixed messages for investors. But late-session buying pulled the market well off its lows for the day. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index plunged 111.09, or 3.2%, to close at 3361.01, recovering from an intraday low of 3506 but skidding 8.5% for the week. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, down as much 206 points earlier, fell 128.38, or 1.2%, to 10596.54. It slipped 0.5% for the week. 

 Other major indexes fell. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index sank 27.29, or 1.9%, to 1408.99; the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index fell 11.75, or 1.8%, to 656.12; and the Russell 2000 Index of small-capitalization stocks plunged 11.65, or 2.3%, to 491.02. 

 The market opened higher as investors received some encouragement from the employment report, which soothed some fears that the U.S. economy might be slowing too much. But the report also suggested the Federal Reserve won't be cutting interest rates anytime soon, and selling quickly took hold as investors remained troubled about third-quarter earnings. 

 The tech sector, the hardest hit since early September, continued to lead the decline Friday, with some of the deepest losses in Internet, semiconductor and telecommunications shares. The main stock indexes widened their declines as the day wore on, but recovered somewhat in the last hour of trading, pushing the Nasdaq composite down 21% since Sept. 1 and the industrial average off 6% from that point by the close. 

 Michael Lyons, a senior trader at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said Friday's employment report offered news that was "not all bad, not all good," giving investors no solid reason to move back into the market. He also noted lingering concerns about the effect of the weak euro and the high price of oil on earnings. 

 "There is still nervousness in the market here," Mr. Lyons said. "October is not a friendly month. There seems to be no reason to be buying stocks, and investors can afford to sit back and be selective about what they buy." 

 Treasurys rebounded amid the decline by stocks as investors sought the perceived safety of government securities. The bond market closed early Friday, and will be closed Monday for the Columbus Day holiday. Stock exchanges in the U.S. will be open Monday. 

 Among companies issuing earnings warnings, several came in the technology sector, spurring its decline. 

 Imation (IMA) fell $2.88, or 15%, to $16.44 by 4 p.m. EDT, after the data-storage and information-management company said it expects its third-quarter results to be below expectations. Razorfish (RAZF) fell $3.75, or 43%, to $5 after the Web-design and consulting firm issued a similar warning. And Marimba (MRBA) dropped $5.50, or 49%, to $5.63 after the software maker said it expects to post an operating loss instead of a profit. 

 The Nasdaq computer index fell 2.6%. Hewlett-Packard (HWP) fell $1.19 to $87.06, but other computers makers rose after being battered in recent trading following this week's warning from Dell Computer and last week's from Apple Computer. Dell (DELL) and Apple (AAPL) edged higher while International Business Machines (IBM) also rose. 

 Outside the tech sector, the market saw gains in utility stocks. But retail and financial shares were weak, with brokerage stocks down steeply amid rumors that a firm has suffrered major losses to its high-yield portfolio. Dow component J.P. Morgan (JPM) fell $6 to $153, while Lehman Brothers (LEH), Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (MWD) and Goldman Sachs Group (GS) also sank. 

 Home-improvement retailer Lowe's (LOW) dropped $1.06 to $40.81, after it said third-quarter same-store sales would be below expectations, citing lumber-pricing pressures. Rival Home Depot (HD) fell $2.69 to $51.06 in sympathy. 

 In the jobs report, the Labor Department said the U.S. unemployment rate unexpectedly fell to 3.9% in September, compared with estimates for it to remain at 4.1%. Total employment rose by 252,000 after posting two months of declines, and hourly wages rose. 

 William Welch, managing director of the Boca Raton, Fla.-based Fiduciary Asset Management, said the employment report offered some positive news for the market, suggesting -- at least for last month -- the U.S. economy isn't slowing as much as some had feared. There have been recent worries that the Fed's persistent vigilance on inflation will have too much of an impact on corporate profits. 

 But some saw the downside in the report. In the wake of the Fed's decision Tuesday to leave interest rates unchanged, saying it remains on alert for inflationary pressures because of tight labor markets, the employment report doesn't suggest interest rates will be lowered in the near-term. "For the time being, it probably means the Fed doesn't change its stance one way or another," Mr. Welch said. 

 Outside the U.S., markets closed sharply lower in Canada and Latin America, tracking losses in U.S. tech shares. European shares fell, with losses in tech, media and telecom stocks leading the decline. In the Asian-Pacific region, stocks closed lower in Tokyo after a strong earthquake hit western Japan, triggering fears of a hindrance to the nation's economic recovery, but stocks soared 5% in Taiwan. 

 In major U.S. market action: 

 Stocks fell. On the Big Board, where 1.14 billion shares traded, 2,006 stocks declined and 834 rose. On the Nasdaq market, 1.81 billion shares changed hands. 

 Bonds rose. The 10-year Treasury note gained nearly 1/4 point, or $2.50 for each $1,000 holding, bringing the yield down to 5.816%. The 30-year bond added nearly 3/4 to yield 5.845%. 

 The dollar was mixed. It traded at 86.84 cents to the euro and 108.83 yen to the dollar, compared with 86.92 cents to the euro and 109.13 yen to the dollar late Thursday in New York. 

 --- 

 Write to David Runk at david.runk@wsj.com 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwa601kuw
?
 

 News Corp Shares Hit By Earnings, Succession Worries 

 By Veronica Brooks 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
608 words
6 October 2000
07:19
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 MELBOURNE -(Dow Jones)- Shares in Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. (NWS) slumped Friday following an earnings downgrade from U.S. broker Merrill Lynch and lingering concerns over the company's succession plans. 

 Ordinary shares in the global media group founded by Australian-born Rupert Murdoch slid $1.26 or 5.3% to A$22.44. This was the stock's largest one-day decline since it tumbled more than 13% in April during the Nasdaq technology slump. 

 Its limited voting scrip, often used by Murdoch in his takeovers, fell A$1.06 or 5.3% to A$18.94 while the broader market dipped 0.5%. 

 A 7.2% slump in News Corp.'s American Depositary Receipts on Wall Street overnight set the tone for the local market. 

 Institutional dealers noted selling in News Corp. shares after a New York announcement that elder son Lachlan has been elevated to deputy chief operating officer, firming his position as heir-apparent to the executive chairman. 

 The promotion disappointed some analysts who had been speculating that highly-regarded media mogul John Malone might emerge with an influential position at News Corp. His Liberty Media Group (LMGA) last week exchanged its holdings in Gemstar-TV Guide International Inc. (GMST) for an increased stake of 18% in the Murdoch empire. 

 Another negative for investors was a report from Merrill Lynch media analyst Jessica Reif Cohen in New York which cut News Corp.'s first quarter and fiscal 2001 earnings forecasts. 

 Merrill Lynch, which strongly reiterated its buy rating on the stock, cited sluggish advertising revenue trends for the company's FOX television group over the September quarter, when rival NBC was showing the Olympics. 

 "We are reducing our FY2001 operating income estimate by US$80 million from US$2.2 billion to US$2.12 billion," Reif Cohen said. "We are also lowering our FY2001 earnings per share estimate from US$1.13 to US$1.07, growth of 40%," which the broking house said is in line with market consensus. 

 On the upside, Reif Cohen said News Corp. still provides "a compelling valuation" and "we believe News Corp. will engage in a number of strategic transactions, poised to help unlock and highlight asset value." 

 UBS Warburg media analyst Peter Shorthouse said the impact on News Corp. shares from the earnings downgrade has been excessive. 

 Shorthouse, who has a 12-month target of A$30 on the stock, said he hasn't had cause to rejig his profit forecasts for News Corp.'s 2001 result of A$940 million, while consensus sits at around A$1.1 billion. 

 However one senior institutional dealer said sentiment towards the global media stock is beginning to sour given its link to the fortunes of the volatile Nasdaq Composite Index. 

 The Sydney dealer, who asked not to be named, predicted News Corp could fall back to between A$16 and A$18 a share. 

 "In my mind, nothing is going right for the stock at the moment and it has a lot of downside," the dealer said. 

 Wayne Nicholls, chief institutional dealer at BT Australia, noted substantial selling from offshore funds. 

 "The Merrill Lynch analyst is probably the most highly regarded in this sector and her profit warning is all it takes," he said. 

 "It's just people heeding her advice," although Nicholls said it's difficult to pick News Corp.'s next share price movement given the numerous factors swirling around it, including the planned Sky Global Networks spinoff. 

 -By Veronica Brooks; 61-3-9614-2663; veronica.brooks@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010805dwa604tgh
?
 

 Stocks fall sharply trading 

519 words
6 October 2000
20:28
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks slid sharply Friday as profit worries again rattled technology shares and an unexpected drop in unemployment stoked fears of rising inflation. 

 Leading market measures extended their losses toward the close. The market opened the day higher, but turned lower as investors grew defensive before the barrage of profit reports expected over the next three weeks. Investors are increasingly worried that companies won't meet Wall Street forecasts. 

 In afternoon trading, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 152.06 at 10,572.86. 

 The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index was 132.88 lower at 3,339.22, down nearly 4 percent heading toward the first close below 3,400 since May. The Standard & Poor's 500 was down 18.67 at 1,417.61. 

 "It's hard to identify a really concrete catalyst here," said Charles White, portfolio manager at Avatar Associates. "People want to get out of the technology names and nobody's home to bid for those stocks." 

 Concerns about third-quarter profit reports, which begin in earnest next week, have been dogging the market since early September. Warnings of poor earnings have provoked a series of selloffs, with high-tech issues particularly vulnerable. 

 The pattern continued Friday. 

 Veeco tumbled $33.56 to $68.13, a 39 percent drop, after the company warned of disappointing earnings and a UBS Warburg analyst downgraded the semiconductor's stock from "buy" to "hold." 

 A similar warning from software company Marimba sent its shares down $5.38 to $5.75, a 48 percent decline. 

 Among leading technology names, Cisco Systems was off $2.38 at $55.19. Intel, which rocked the market with a profit warning last month, was down $1 at $40. 

 Leading the Dow's decline was J.P. Morgan, which fell $9 to $150.38. Home Depot was off $2.81 at $50.94 after rival Lowe's said its same-store sales would be down for the third quarter. Lowe's slipped $1.13 to $41. 

 The latest downturn came after the Labor Department said the nation's unemployment rate fell to 3.9 percent in September and total employment rose by 252,000 after two months of declines. 

 Analysts had been expecting a higher unemployment rate, but White, the Avatar analyst, downplayed the report's impact. 

 "You can't blame this morning's unemployment report for what we're seeing going on in the markets," he said. "I think earnings disappointments, fear of disappointing earnings and, investors overexposed in some of the more volatile stocks looking to run and hide are causing this." 

 Declining issues outnumbered decliners by a 2-to-1 ratio on the New York Stock Exchange, and by a 3-to-1 margin on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 

 The Russell 2000 index was off 8.23 at 494.44. 

 NYSE volume came to 900.98 million shares, compared with 940.19 million at the same point on Thursday. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

 BC-Wall Street, 5th Ld-Writethru,0006 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010804dwa601b9c
?
 

 Stocks fall sharply trading 

483 words
6 October 2000
19:35
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks fell sharply Friday as profit worries again rattled technology shares and an unexpected drop in unemployment stoked fears of rising inflation. 

 The market opened the day higher, but gave back the gains as investors turned defensive before the barrage of profit reports expected over the next three weeks. Investors are increasingly worried that companies won't meet Wall Street forecasts. 

 In midafternoon trading, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 100.63 at 10,624.29. 

 The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index was down 92.88 at 3,379.22, and the Standard & Poor's 500 was down 18.41 at 1,417.17. 

 "It's hard to identify a really concrete catalyst here," said Charles White, portfolio manager at Avatar Associates. "People want to get out of the technology names and nobody's home to bid for those stocks." 

 Concerns about third-quarter profit reports, which begin in earnest next week, have been dogging the market since early September. Warnings of poor earnings have provoked a series of selloffs, with high-tech issues particularly vulnerable. 

 The pattern continued Friday. 

 Veeco tumbled $33.59 to $68.94, a 32 percent drop, after the company warned of disappointing earnings and a UBS Warburg analyst downgraded the semiconductor's stock from "buy" to "hold." 

 A similar warning from software company Marimba sent its shares down $5.25 to $5.875, a 47 percent decline. 

 Among leading technology names, Cisco Systems was off $1.31 at $56.24. Intel, which rocked the market with a profit warning last month, was down 56 cents at $40.44. 

 Leading the Dow's decline was J.P. Morgan, which fell $6.25 to $153.13. Home Depot was off $2.81 at $50.94 after rival Lowe's said its same-store sales would be down for the third quarter. Lowe's slipped $1.81 to $40.31. 

 The latest downturn came after the Labor Department said the nation's unemployment rate fell to 3.9 percent in September and total employment rose by 252,000 after two months of declines. 

 Analysts had been expecting a higher unemployment rate, but White, the Avatar analyst, downplayed the report's impact. 

 "You can't blame this morning's unemployment report for what we're seeing going on in the markets," he said. "I think earnings disappointments, fear of disappointing earnings and, investors overexposed in some of the more volatile stocks looking to run and hide are causing this." 

 Declining issues outnumbered decliners by a 2-to-1 ratio on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 773.98 million shares, compared with 798.89 million shares in the previous session. 

 The Russell 2000 index was off 8.40 at 494.27, 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010804dwa601ay8
?
 

 Financial 
 Blue Chips Give Markets a Lift 

Associated Press
605 words
5 October 2000
The Washington Post
WP
FINAL
E02
English
 Copyright 2000, The Washington Post Co. All Rights Reserved 

 NEW YORK, Oct. 4 -- Blue chips led Wall Street higher today, lifting the Nasdaq composite index to its first positive finish this week despite a continuing slide in technology stocks. 

 Lower oil prices made the stocks of chemical companies and airlines especially attractive to investors looking for less risky investments. However, a profit warning from Dell Computer after the market closed raised the likelihood of a return to the market's losing streak on Thursday. 

 Dell fell $2.38 in after-hours trading after warning that it, like some other high-profile tech companies, expected to report disappointing earnings. Dell fell 38 cents, to $28.19, in regular trading. 

 During the regular session, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 64.74 points, to 10,784.48, after having gained more than 120 points during the day. 

 The tech-focused Nasdaq rose 67.27, to 3523.10, after spending much of the day in negative territory. The gain erased some of Tuesday's 113-point loss, which left the index at its lowest close since late May. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 7.86 at 1434.32. 

 "I'd characterize the day as a rebound from the oversold levels of yesterday, specifically in tech stocks," said Bob Streed, portfolio manager for the Northern Select Equity Fund. "This is just a bounce you're getting in some stocks. I don't think these gains are sustainable." 

 Bargain hunting after the market's recent weeks of decline prompted much of today's upturn. Investors, while increasingly anxious about third-quarter earnings reports due out this month, were still looking for good investments. 

 Buyers were drawn to shares of chemical and airlines stocks, believing that heavily oil-dependent companies will see a reduction in costs as the price of oil falls. Light, sweet crude oil for November delivery settled today at $31.43 a barrel, down 64 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 

 DuPont rose $1, to $45.38, and Dow Chemical was up 31 cents at $27.25. Investors bid Delta up $1.88, to $45.75; Continental Airlines rose $1.38, to $47. 

 Technology stocks spent much of the day lower, but staged a mild recovery after Oracle issued a statement reaffirming a positive earnings outlook. The software maker ended the day down $1.38, at $68.13, but recovered from an earlier loss of as much as $6. The stock fell 12 percent Tuesday. 

 Bargain hunting also prompted buying in chipmakers, whose stock prices have generally drifted downward. Intel rose $1.69, to $42, and Micron Technology was up $3.94, to $47. 

 Among stocks that issued bleak earnings announcements, Knight Trading fell $3.69, to $28.50. Investors, however, bid Computer Associates up $3.63, to $28.06, after it said late Tuesday that earnings would be below Wall Street estimates. 

 Old-economy stocks got most of the attention. Boeing was up for a second day, rising $1.25, to $61.13. International Paper climbed $1.88, to $31.50. 

 AT&T rose 63 cents, to $29.75, on published reports it may spin off its struggling consumer long-distance business. BellSouth was up $1.94, to $42.94, and SBC climbed $1.69, to $51.63, after the companies said they would make a major announcement Thursday. 

 "When times get a little uncertain, the older names that are sustainable growth companies or value companies . . . come to mind for investment allocation," said A.C. Moore, chief investment strategist for Dunvegan Associates in Santa Barbara, Calif. 

Document wp00000020010814dwa500gpn
?
 

 UPDATE 2-Omni slumps after Dell warning. 

564 words
5 October 2000
12:02
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SINGAPORE, Oct 5 (Reuters) - Singapore's Omni Industries Ltd fell almost four percent on Thursday after a revenue warning by Dell Computer , a week after its other major customer, Apple Computer , made a similar warning. 

 Omni, a contract manufacturer, hit an intra-day low of S$2.56 before closing at S$2.57, down 10 cents, or 3.75 percent, on 7.6 million units traded. 

 "Consecutive profit warnings from Apple and Dell will eat into Omni's anticipated robust growth," said Chua Wee Thia, an analyst at Vickers Ballas. 

 Chua downgraded his call to neutral from buy as the warnings were expected to affect profitability and sentiments on Omni. 

 SOME ANALYSTS STILL POSITIVE 

 But some analysts were not overly concerned, keeping buy calls on Singapore's fourth largest electronics contract manufacturer. 

 "In terms of actual earnings impact on Omni, the effect of a Dell slowdown is actually quite limited," said Dharmo Soejanto, an analyst at Kim Eng Securities. 

 Patrick Yau of ABN AMRO Asia Securities said Omni could still achieve its own forecast of more than 40 percent growth in net profit in 2000. 

 "The market is overly worried...(but) it's still entirely logical that (Omni) can make the numbers," Yau added. 

 Both Soejanto and Yau kept their buy calls. 

 Omni assured investors earlier this week it would make up for weaker Apple orders with those from customers such as Dell. 

 Dell, the world's No. 2 personal computer maker, warned of third-quarter sales falling below expectations after the close of regular trading hours on Wall Street. 

 The Dell news was a double blow to Omni after Apple, which contributed 10 to 15 percent of Omni's business last year, issued a profit warning last week. 

 Omni had hoped that a decline in Apple's contributions to its business would be replaced by Dell. 

 Dell was expected to account for five percent of Omni's sales in the second half, compared with two to three percent in the first half. 

 Analysts said they still could not assess the full situation on the peripherals side for modems and high-end printers, Omni's main growth drivers. 

 Since the Apple warning started to affect its share price, about S$71 million of Omni's market capitalisation had been wiped out, leaving it valued at around S$960 million at current levels. 

 FUNDS AVOID CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS 

 "We don't hold Omni stocks...but the overall industry trend is more of a concern," said Jason See, chief investment officer of OUB Asset Management. 

 "At this moment, we will not touch the tech sector. We will wait for one or two (company) figures to see how PC sales are going. It's better to be on the cautious side," he said. 

 The fall in Omni also depressed the already fragile market sentiment on Natsteel Electronics , the world's sixth largest contract manufacturer. 

 Its shares hit S$3.88, the lowest level since February 1999, before crawling back to close at S$3.90 on 7.1 million shares. 

 Natsteel derived about half of its business from Apple. 

 Venture Manufacturing also lost over one percent at S$15.30 on almost 1.5 million units. 

 Their falls dragged the electronics sector index down 1.5 percent to 140.40 points, while the broader market was up almost one percent. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa505lu4
?
 

 Omni sags after Dell warning. 

301 words
5 October 2000
05:19
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SINGAPORE, Oct 5 (Reuters) - Shares of Omni Industries slumped over four percent on Thursday morning after a revenue warning by its major customer Dell Computer. 

 Omni shares hit an early low of S$2.56 before crawling back to S$2.58, down nine cents, or 3.37 percent, on almost five million units traded at 0354 GMT. 

 Omni, Singapore's fourth largest electronics contract manufacturer, assured investors earlier this week that it would make up for weaker Apple Computer orders with those from customers such as Dell. 

 Dell, the world's No. 2 personal computer maker, warned of third-quarter sales falling below expectations after the close of regular trading hours on Wall Street. 

 The Dell news was a double blow to Omni which saw Apple Computers, which contributed 10 to 15 percent of Omni's business last year, issue a profit warning last week. 

 Omni had hoped that a decline in Apple's contributions to its business would be replaced by Dell. 

 "This news will obviously cast doubt on how much Dell can offset the Apple-related weakness," independent research house Netresearch-Asia said. 

 Since the Apple warning started to affect its share price, about S$71 million of Omni market capitalisation had been wiped out, leaving it valued at around S$960 million at current level. 

 "We don't hold Omni stocks...But the overall industry trend is more of a concern," said Jason See, chief investment officer of OUB Asset Management. 

 "At this moment, we will not touch the tech sector. We will wait for one or two (company) figures to see how PC sales are going. It's better to be on the cautious side. We will only focus on the old economy stocks like property, banks and conglomerates," he said. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa505li6
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Alcoa profit climbs in line with lowered estimates. 

482 words
5 October 2000
15:21
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 PITTSBURGH, Oct 5 (Reuters) - Alcoa Inc., the world's largest producer of aluminum, on Thursday said its third-quarter earnings rose 42 percent, matching Wall Street estimates that were lowered after the company issued a profit warning last month. 

 Alcoa earnings have been boosted by cost cutting, higher aluminum prices and contributions from acquisitions this year of Reynolds Metals Co. and Cordant Technologies. However, profit growth has been trimmed by higher energy costs and a softening in demand in major industrial markets. 

 Pittsburgh-based Alcoa earned $368 million, or 42 cents per diluted share, in the third quarter, ended Sept. 30, up from $259 million, or 35 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. 

 Analysts' consensus earnings estimate was 42 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. The consensus forecast was cut from 49 cents after Alcoa warned on Sept. 18 that it expected earnings of 40 to 43 cents a share. 

 In the earnings report, Alcoa Chief Executive Alain Belda said that in the fourth quarter the company would continue to benefit from its acquisitions, cost cutting and the seasonal strength of its packaging business. 

 But he cautioned that "we also expect softness to continue in the construction, transportation, building and distribution markets and see no relief from the higher energy prices." 

 Alcoa's natural gas and fuel oil bill was $70 million higher in the first nine months of this year. The company uses natural gas and fuel oil to convert bauxite, the raw ore, into alumina, which is then used to make aluminum. 

 Rising electricity prices are also a threat to Alcoa as aluminum production requires a lot of electricity. 

 Shares in Alcoa, the first of the 30 companies whose stocks make up the Dow Jones industrial average to report third-quarter results, were down 7/16 at $26-13/16 in morning trade on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have picked up in the past week after falling to a 52-week low of $23-5/16 on Sept. 27, but they are still more than 60 percent below their 52-week high of $43-5/8, reached in January. 

 Alcoa said its third-quarter revenue rose 55 percent from a year earlier to $6.3 billion. After-tax operating income from its alumina and chemicals, primary metals, flat-rolled products and packaging and consumer divisions all rose in the quarter from the second quarter, but income from engineered products operation dropped. 

 The company said that by the end of the second quarter it had achieved $924 million in annualized cost savings toward its previously announced target of $1.1 billion by January 2001. In the earnings report, Alcoa indicated that it is only confident of achieving the target if the higher natural gas and fuel oil costs are excluded from the equation. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa505klj
?
 

 U.S. tech stocks drop on Dell news, broader market flat. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
918 words
5 October 2000
18:15
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 5 (Reuters) - U.S. technology stocks were in the red at midday on Thursday as a warning of slower sales growth from computing giant Dell Computer Corp. intensified jitters over corporate profits in the latest quarter. 

 "Today Dell has people worried about PCs, worried about components and it has them worried about the economy," said Arnold Berman, technology strategist at Wit Soundview. 

 "I would like to say that all the questions that Dell raises are limited to PC hardware, but they're not." 

 The tech-laced Nasdaq Composite Index was down 25 points, or 0.73 percent, at 3,497, off the lows but with most of the market's tech heavyweights falling. The index had staged at least two failed attempts at moving above water. 

 The Dell warning, which came after Wednesday's close, put a damper on that day's modest, late rally in tech stocks, when investors took a break from worrying over corporate profit growth and snapped up some beaten-down names. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average was down 34 points, or 0.32 percent, at 10,750, pressured by computer titans International Business Machines Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co.. But the losses were limited, thanks to a lift from rising pharmaceutical and industrial shares. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was up 3 points, or 0.27 percent, at 1,438, having spent much of the day moving nominally to either side of the unchanged mark. 

 Market breadth was negative but not overly so. About four shares fell for every three that rose on Nasdaq while on the Big Board the ratio was 14 to 11 in favour of the losers. 

 The stock of Dell, the world's No. 2 personal computer maker, fell 8 percent, off $2-5/16 to $25-15/16. It was the most actively traded on Nasdaq. The company blamed weak demand in Europe for its projected sales shortfall. 

 On Thursday, Dell stock hit its lowest point in two years when it fell to $25 earlier during the session. 

 Computer makers' stocks followed Dell down. Compaq Computer moved lower, off $3.04 at $25.80 on the New York Stock Exchange. Among the Dow 30's technology components, IBM fell $2-1/8 to $112-1/2 and Hewlett-Packard slid $5-11/16 to $89-13/16. Sun Microsystems fell $2-41/64 to $108-13/16 on Nasdaq. 

 "Current weakness appears industry related, not company specific, in our opinion," Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown computer sector analyst Phil Rueppel told clients in a note. 

 The impact of Thursday's round of losses, however, was somewhat limited as prices already reflect the battering of key technology issues after similar warnings over the past three weeks. Those include a Sept. 21 announcement from No.1 chip maker Intel Corp. that revenues would lag, and computer maker Apple Computer Inc.'s announcement last week that profits would miss estimates. 

 "It is just a matter of continuing to wring out an overly bid-up group," said Peter Cardillo, director of research at Westfalia Investments. "Once the washout is over with, and we are probably getting pretty close to that, they will turn around." 

 Memory-chip maker Micro Technology Inc., whose earnings for the latest quarter handily beat estimates, also fell, after ABN AMRO said it had cut its 12-month price target for the stock, citing lower-than-expected prices. 

 Micron was down nearly 11 percent, off $5-1/8 to $41-13/16. 

 Meanwhile, the shares of Pitney Bowes Inc. fell over 30 percent earlier in the day, after the mail-metering giant warned late Wednesday that third-quarter profits would fall almost 4 percent below previous estimates. Pitney fell $10-3/8 to $25-1/4 on the Big Board. Its annoucement came after Wednesday's close. 

 Alcoa Inc. stock fell after Chief Executive Alain Belda warned that the No. 1 aluminum producer expects softness to continue in the construction, transportation, building and distribution markets and sees no relief from high energy prices. 

 Alcoa, which was the first among the 30 companies that make up the blue-chip Dow average to report financial results for this period, said on Thursday its third-quarter earnings rose 42 percent, matching estimates that were lowered after it warned about profits last month. Alcoa stock fell 3/4 to $26-1/2. 

 The stocks of consumer and household products makers, including Procter & Gamble, a Dow component, and Gillette Co., rose after a Merrill Lynch analyst raised intermediate-term ratings on several of the bellwethers. 

 On the economic front, Wall Street is eyeing the Labour Department's release of the September employment report ahead of the market open on Friday morning. Wall Street is expecting payrolls to rise 232,000 after falling 105,000 in August. 

 But the Labour Department said in a report early Thursday the number of new U.S. claims for jobless benefits rose by 10,000 in the week ended Sept. 30, halting two consecutive weeks of declines. Initial claims rose to 299,000, close to Street predictions, from a revised 289,000 in the Sept. 23 week. 

 "It doesn't mean you can't get a strong (employment) report but when claims go up, eventually it hits the employment numbers," Westfalia's Cardillo said. "If the trend continues, obviously, it is a trend toward higher unemployment rather than employment." 

Document lba0000020010821dwa505k9z
?
 

 HOT STOCKS HIGHLIGHTS - Oct. 5. 

761 words
5 October 2000
18:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 5 (Reuters) - U.S. technology stocks were lower in afternoon trading Thursday after computing giant Dell Computer warned late Wednesday of softer-than-expected sales, putting a damper on related stocks and adding to investor fears of slower profit growth. 

 The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index was off 28.47 points, or 0.8 percent, at 3,494.63. 

 Blue chips hovered around the unchanged mark. The Dow Jones Industrial average was down 25.90 points, or 0.2 percent, at 10,758.58, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was up 2.27 points, or 0.2 percent, at 1,436.70. 

 Stocks making significant moves: 

 DELL COMPUTER, OFF $2-7/16, OR 8.5 PERCENT, TO $25-13/16. 

 **The world's No. 2 personal computer maker hovered near a two-year low after warning that sales could miss its target growth rate of 30 percent this year. Several analysts then lowered full-year earnings per share estimates for the Round Rock, Texas-based company. 

 Dell said Thursday that if softness persists into the fourth quarter, full-year revenue would be about $32 billion, an increase of about $7 billion, or 27 percent, over fiscal 2000. The company previously expected 30 percent sales growth for the full year. 

 J.C. PENNEY CO FELL 15/16, OR 8.4 PERCENT, TO $10-1/4. 

 **The Plano, Texas-based retailer warned on Thursday that weak retail sales and poor results at its Eckerd drugstores will cause it to miss analysts' already lowered profit expectations and may result in a third-quarter loss, sending shares down near a 15-year low. 

 Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial expected on average that the struggling No. 5 retailer would report a third-quarter profit of 10 cents a share, reduced from a prior estimate of 31 cents a share in August. The August downgrade was prompted by a warning from Penney that sales declines in its department stores would likely hurt results. 

 NORDSTROM INC ROSE $1-1/2, OR 9.9 PERCENT, TO $16-11/16. 

 **The upscale retailer said on Thursday that sales in September at stores open at least a year rose 7.9 percent on an "unadjusted" basis from a year earlier. Seattle-based Nordstrom said in a statement that adjusting for differences in the specific days of the week that comprised September 2000 from a year earlier, same-store sales rose 4.3 percent. 

 Preliminary total sales for the month rose 15.7 percent, to $421.7 million from $364.4 million in September 1999. Preliminary year-to-date total sales rose 7.2 percent to $3.4 billion, while same-store sales were up 1.7 percent, it said. 

 PITNEY BOWES , OFF $10-5/8, OR 30 PERCENT, TO $25. 

 The mail-metering giant was the second worst performing stock in the S&P 500 after Goldman Sachs on Thursday said it cut its investment rating on Pitney to market performer from market outperformer. 

 In a research note, Goldman Sachs said it had lowered its 2000 earnings per share estimate to $2.44 a share from $2.60; and its 2001 EPS estimate to $2.75 a share from $2.90. 

 GILLETTE CO, ROSE $1-13/16, OR 6 PERCENT, TO $31-3/4. 

 PROCTER & GAMBLE, GAINED $2-7/16, OR 3.5 PERCENT, TO $72-3/4. 

 COLGATE-PALMOLIVE, . CLIMBED $2.20, OR 4.7 PERCENT, TO $49.14 

 CLOROX , ROSE $3-1/16, OR 7.8 PERCENT, TO $42-1/2. 

 ENERGISER , CLIMBED 5/8, OR 2.8 PERCENT, TO $23-5/16. 

 AVON PRODUCTS , ROSE $2-7/8, OR 7.1 PERCENT, TO $43-5/8. 

 **Stocks of consumer and household products makers rose on Thursday after Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst Heather Murren raised her intermediate-term ratings on several bellwethers to "accumulate" from "neutral." 

 "We believe the group has survived the storm over the recent past and is positioned to benefit from company-specific initiatives," analyst Heather Murren said in a note to clients. 

 Murren believes earnings expectations for the group are close to bottoming after revising, "earnings estimates multiple times this year," she said. 

 "In January we had expected 15 percent growth and now we expect 9.4 percent for the year," Murren said. 

 Forecasting slower global growth, Murren is also expecting earnings growth for the group to compare favourably with anticipated 10 percent growth in earnings per share (EPS) for Standard & Poor's 500 companies in 2001. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa505k8m
?
 

 Alcoa profit climbs in line with estimates. 

203 words
5 October 2000
14:03
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 PITTSBURGH, Oct 5 (Reuters) - Alcoa Inc., the world's largest producer of aluminum, on Thursday said its third-quarter earnings rose 42 percent, in line with analysts' estimates which were lowered after the company issued a profit warning last month. 

 The Pittsburgh-based company pushed expectations lower because it was hit by higher energy costs and a softening in demand from some of its major industrial markets. Its profits have been boosted by cost cutting, higher aluminum prices compared with a year ago, and the contribution from acquisitions. 

 Alcoa earned $368 million, or 42 cents per diluted share, in the third quarter, ended Sept. 30, up from $259 million, or 35 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Analysts' consensus earnings estimate was 42 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, though that was cut from 49 cents after Alcoa's earnings warning on Sept. 18. Alcoa said then that it expected 40 to 43 cents a share. 

 Alcoa, the first of the 30 companies whose stocks make up the Dow Jones industrial average to report third-quarter results, said its revenue rose 55 percent from a year earlier to $6.3 billion. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa505jr8
?
 

 Pitney Bowes shares dive 31 pct after  profit warning . 

515 words
5 October 2000
16:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 STAMFORD, Conn., Oct 5 (Reuters) - Pitney Bowes Inc shares plunged 31 percent on Thursday after the mail-metering giant warned of an expected earnings shortfall for the second half of the year due to slower sales and weaker currencies. 

 Pitney Bowes shares fell $11-1/16 to $24-9/16, a drop of 31.05 percent, in morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume was 4.0 million shares. 

 The Stamford, Conn.-based company, the oldest and biggest U.S. mail-metering firm, said late on Wednesday it expected third-quarter earnings to be in the range of 62-63 cents a share, below the 65 cents a share analysts expected. 

 The company also lowered its full-year 2000 earnings projection to $2.44 to $2.48 per share, before one-time items, citing competition in the office products space and weakness of foreign currencies. 

 Analysts had expected Pitney-Bowes to earn $2.58 a share for the year versus $2.34 in 1999, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Michael Critelli, the chairman and chief executive of Pitney Bowes, told analysts in a conference call on Thursday the company was "very disappointed" after achieving 22 straight quarters of double-digit earnings growth. 

 He said the company ended the third quarter some $18 million below its expectations of written business, or contracts signed but not yet paid. 

 "They are not driving growth initiatives such as online billing fast enough to make up for a slowdown in the core mailing businesses that are economically sensitive," said Ben Reitzes, analyst at PaineWebber. 

 PaineWebber cut its rating on the company to "neutral" from "attractive." In the spring of this year, PaineWebber had cut Pitney Bowes to "attractive" from "buy." 

 "Given the magnitude of what looks like a large shortfall for the fourth quarter and the possibility of issues extending into next year, we thought it was prudent to take it down another notch, given that we're seeing an economic slowdown and and overall weakness in mailing sector," Reitzes said. 

 Goldman Sachs cut its rating on Pitney Bowes to "market performer" from "market outperformer." 

 Pitney Bowes is the third major office-equipment company in the past two weeks to blame slow sales in September and adverse foreign-exchange rates for an expected profit shortfall. 

 Its competitors Xerox Corp and Lexmark International gave similar warnings recently. 

 Critelli said he saw several reasons for optimism next year, including an expected U.S. Postal Service rate increase in the first quarter, and continued "meter migration" which creates demand for newer products that allow remote resetting of meters. 

 During the third quarter, Pitney Bowes bought back 2.9 million shares at a cost of $105.8 million. 

 Pitney Bowes will push ahead with its share-buyback programme in 2001, Critelli said. 

 "We would expect to continue, particularly if the stock price remains what we believe not reflective of value of the company, to buy back shares actively because we continue to expect strong cash flow," Critelli said. He did not elaborate. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa505d5u
?
 

 J.C. Penney Reports  Decline  in Same-Store Sales, Issues  Profit Warning 

1,605 words
5 October 2000
09:29
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- J.C. Penney Co. reported disappointing September sales and warned it will miss third-quarter earnings estimates. 

 Kmart Corp. posted a sales increase but said results were "below plan." But Sears Roebuck & Co. and Federated Department Stores Inc. rang up decent sales growth, and clothing retailers Talbots Inc. and Limited Ltd. reported strong sales gains. 

 Penney (JCP) said same-store sales -- sales at stores open at least a year -- fell 4%. The chain blamed a "challenging retail environment" and continued disappointing results in its Eckerd drugstore operations, where the retailer expects to post an operating loss in the quarter. Penney, Plano, Texas, also pointed to more promotional activity than expected at its department stores. 

 Analysts were expecting Penney to earn 10 cents a share for the third quarter, which ends Oct. 31, and 37 cents a share for the fourth quarter, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 In the 1999 third quarter, the company posted net income of $142 million, or 51 cents a share, on revenue of $7.98 billion. In the year-earlier fourth quarter, Penney had a loss of $21 million, or eight cents a share, on revenue of $9.69 billion. 

 Penney said total sales fell 0.9% to $2.83 billion in September, while total department store sales declined 4.8% to $1.21 billion. 

 Same-store sales at its drugstores, excluding about 300 recently closed underperforming stores, rose 8.8%, led by a 14.3% increase in pharmacy sales. But front-end same-store sales fell 1.2%. The retailer said more promotional activity than anticipated hurt operating profit. Total drugstore sales for the five weeks ended Sept. 30, increased 3.8% to $1.196 billion. 

 "We continue to believe that J.C. Penney is in a very difficult position," said analyst Elizabeth Shamir of PNC Advisors. "We think it's an uphill battle for them as more traffic is diverted to off-the-mall concepts." 

 Shopping centers with "big box" stores such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT), Target Corp. (TGT), Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY) and the new cosmetics superstore Ulte are siphoning off mall customers, and "we think that's a really tough hurdle," she said. 

 Penney has hired impressive management, and "they are doing all the right things," but that may not be enough, said Ms. Shamir. 

 "We just feel that a turnaround is not assured," she said. "They can do all the right things, and we do think jcpenney.com is a bright spot, but we do think that a turnaround is not assured, " she added. "We would not try to bottom-fish in these shares." 

 Analyst Bruce Missett of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter said the company's numbers have deteriorated more than he had expected, and that with the company in a management transition, "it's difficult to draw a conclusion on when momentum will shift." 

 Analyst Bernard Sosnick of Fahnestock & Co. said investors should judge the new management's success months from now, not today. 

 Allen Questrom, credited with leading Barneys New York Inc. (BNNY) and Federated (FD) from bankruptcy, was named chairman and chief executive, effective Sept. 15. 

 As for Eckerd, Mr. Sosnick noted that Penney recently tapped Wayne Harris as the lagging drugstore chain's new chairman and chief executive, and that Harris most recently headed grocery retailer Grand Union Co. (GUCO), which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection this week. The analyst didn't expand on that observation. Harris is credited with earlier turning around the Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co.'s (GAP) Canadian division. 

 Kmart (KMT), the No. 2 discounter in the U.S., said net same-store sales rose 2.4%, but, excluding the impact of store closings and inventory liquidation, same-store sales edged up 0.9% for the period. 

 "September sales were below plan with promotional and clearance sales offsetting regular sales growth," Chuck Conaway, Kmart chairman and chief executive, said in a prepared statement. "We continue to focus on inventory levels and inventory mix while dramatically raising the level of store execution." 

 Kmart, based in Troy, Mich., posted net sales of $3.08 billion, up 4.1% from September 1999. 

 The retailer, which has also been facing increased competition from Wal-Mart and Target, named Mr. Conaway, former president of CVS Corp., as its chief executive in June. Since then, Kmart has announced plans for fast changes in operations. In July, the retailer announced that it would shutter 72 underperforming stores, increase markdowns on discontinued inventory, and launch a program to upgrade its computer systems. 

 Dillard's Inc. (DDS) reported a 6% decline in same-store sales and a 5% drop in total sales, to $788.9 million from a year earlier. The Little Rock, Ark., department-store chain didn't provide additional information. 

 In May, Dillard's said its fiscal first-quarter net income dropped nearly 31% amid weak sales, which the retailer had blamed on bad weather and a late Easter, but those results marked the fourth consecutive quarter when Dillard's earnings have fallen below the estimates of Wall Street analysts. 

 The company's downward sales spiral began last spring, when the 65 stores it gained from the $2.9 billion acquisition of Mercantile Stores performed worse than anticipated. The company had expected the Mercantile acquisition to boost sales without the expenses associated with internal expansion. 

 Sears (S), the second-largest U.S. retailer behind Wal-Mart, reported a 3% rise in domestic same-store revenue for the five weeks ended Oct. 2, amid strength from home appliances, sporting goods, fine jewelry and footwear. The retailer's specialty stores, such as its Sears Auto Centers, also did well. 

 Total revenue for the five-week period rose 4% to $3.66 billion, while total domestic revenue rose 4.2% to $2.63 billion. 

 The Hoffman Estates, Ill., retailer said revenue amounts for the month reflect the implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines for licensed business revenue. 

 Federated, of Cincinnati, reported that September same-store sales rose 2.9% from a year earlier. Total sales rose 2.2% to $1.63 billion, while department-store sales rose 3.6% to $1.47 billion. 

 The retailer's direct-to-consumer sales fell 8.8% in September to $166 million. The direct-to-consumer segment includes the operations of Fingerhut, Bloomingdale's By Mail, Bloomingdales.com, Macy's By Mail and Macys.com. 

 Federated operates department stores under the names of Bloomingdale's, Bon Marche, Burdines, Goldsmith's, Lazarus, Macy's, Rich's and Stern's. 

 Talbots (TLB) posted a nearly 25% surge in same-store sales amid healthy trends across all geographic regions. 

 "Given the fact that September is a month in which virtually all of our merchandise is at regular price, we are extremely pleased with our comparable-store sales performance," Arnold B. Zetcher, chairman, president and chief executive, said in a prepared statement. 

 Talbots also boosted its third-quarter earnings outlook to a range of $1.00 to $1.02 a diluted share, above the 84-cent-a-share estimate from analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. A year earlier, the retailer earned 63 cents a share. 

 The Hingham, Mass., women's-apparel retailer said it is "optimistic" about its business ahead of the holiday selling season. 

 Target (TGT) said consolidated same-store sales rose 2.9%. The Minneapolis-based retailer said total consolidated sales climbed 8.1% to $3.07 billion. 

 May Department Stores Co.'s (MAY) same-store sales inched up 0.7%. Total sales for the St. Louis retialer rose rose 5.7% to $1.30 billion. 

 May operates department stores such as Lord & Taylor, Hecht's and Filene's, as well as 113 bridal stores. The company didn't open any department stores in September. For the year-to-date, however, May has opened 20 of the 23 new department stores planned for the year. Its DavidUs Bridal unit opened four stores in September. 

 Last month, May warned that third-quarter earnings would fall below estimates and last year's third-quarter results. The retailer blamed a disappointing August, slow back-to-school sales and the fact that clearance of spring and summer apparel was "more difficult than expected." 

 Limited Inc. (LTD) said same-store sales climbed 10%, while net sales climbed 9.4% to $801.1 million. Limited, Columbus, Ohio, operates Express, Lerner New York, Lane Bryant, Limited Stores, Structure and Henri Bendel. 

 Limited also owns 84% of Intimate Brands Inc., the parent company of Victoria's Secret, Bath & Body Works and White Barn Candle Company. 

 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF), a Reynoldsburg, Ohio, retailer of casual teen clothing, saw its same-store sales fall 2% in September, following a 3% drop in August. The once-highflying company has suffered with problems in its women's-apparel line since last fall. 

 Ames Department Stores Inc. (AMES), of Rocky Hill, Conn., said September same-store sales fell 3.9%. The discount retailer said higher layaway sales hurt its monthly figures, following the adoption of the SEC's layaway accounting rule. 

 Among high-end retailers, Neiman Marcus Group (NMGA, NMGB) reported a 19% same-store sales rise. Saks Inc. (SKS) said same-stores sales at its Saks Fifth Avenue unit rose 8.4% and Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) reported a 7.9% same-store sales increase on improvements in all major merchandise categories, expect children's apparel. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwa501kj5
?
 

 Philips Semiconductors Bets On Continued Strong Growth 

 By Toby Sterling 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
778 words
5 October 2000
16:07
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NOORDWIJK, Netherlands -(Dow Jones)- If there's a slowdown in the semiconductor industry, you wouldn't know it by looking at Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHG), Europe's largest chipmaker. 

 Philips Semiconductors Chairman Arthur Van der Poel said at a conference in the coastal town of Noordwijk he expects the current industry boom to extend at least into 2002 and that he's willing to sacrifice a few points on margins in return for sharply higher sales and a bigger market share. 

 After U.S. chipmaker Intel Corp.'s (INTC) profit warning late last month, van der Poel scared some, who thought he was issuing a profitwarning of his own. 

 Philips' Amsterdam-listed shares fell briefly, because markets initially misinterpreted his message. 

 He unveiled an ambitious annual sales target of EUR10 billion by 2002, compared with EUR3.8 billion last year. 

 "For a long time, we've been focused on gaining credibility through issuing consistent, predictable results," he said. "Now we've decided it's time to accelerate and move away from (staid) financial performance and go for growth." 

 That means sharply higher investment in semiconductor activities, a spokesman said later in the day. Investment was EUR650 million last year. That will rise to about EUR2 billion annually from this year going forward, the spokesman said. 

 Van der Poel said margins for semiconductors could fall "several percentage points" as the division chases its target of EUR10 billion sales, which it should hit "by the second half of 2002." 

 The division's operating margin was 18.5% in the first half, based on operating profit of EUR596 million and sales of EUR3.06 billion. 

 The spokesman said the move makes good strategic sense. 

 "Over the long term, it's better to have 20% growth and 15% margins than 20% margins and 15% growth," he said. 

 On the sidelines of the conference, Van der Poel noted some of the extra investment in the semiconductors unit would allow it to speed up plans to build new factories. 

 "We have a yearly and quarterly build plan, so what we would do is move something forward into an earlier month or quarter," he said. 

 He noted that Philips' new 50%-owned factory in Singapore produced its first chip last week, a month ahead of schedule, and that the plant would be operating at full tilt "very shortly." 

 At the same conference, Philips unveiled its Nexperia chip for television set-top boxes, which the company said was both an important product in its own right, and as an archetype for a new style of chip-making at Philips that would cut the time it takes the company to bring a new chip to market from two years to six months. 

 "(The increase in time to market) is not something you could measure in terms of percent," Van der Poel said. "It's going to be faster by a factor of two or three." 

 Theo Claasen, Philips Semiconductor's chief technology officer explained that the Nexperia chip was designed with a "modular" architecture in both the hardware of each major part of its circuitry and the parallel software that governs communication with each part. 

 Now that the Nexperia chip's standard architecture is complete, he said, reordering of the modules in order to make high-end or low-end variations of the chip - or tailor-made variations - can be completed rapidly. 

 He said Philips will introduce a series of similar families of chips for other products, such as hand-held wireless devices, and that he expected the modular chip design to become a fixture of the chip-making industry. 

 "Two years ago when we first started thinking about this, we didn't know anybody else doing the same thing," he said. "Now we believe that most of the best chipmakers have a similar idea." 

 The first Nexperia chip will be used in set-top boxes made by Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. (Q.SSE) of South Korea, and one million boxes Philips will build for AT&T (T). The company said it is planning further announcements of "blue- chip" manufacturers that will include the chip in their boxes in the next two months. 

 Claasen said the Nexperia chip has more processing power than Intel's Pentium III chip, and will cost just $48 when purchased in lots of more than 100,000. 

 He said the chip will support interactive television user interface software from OpenTV Corp (OPTV), Liberate Technologies (LBRT) and Microsoft Corp. (MSFT), among others. 

 -By Toby Sterling, Dow Jones Newswires: 3120-626-0770; toby.sterling@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010805dwa504wev
?
 

 WSJ.COM WRAP: Penney's Sales Fall; Issues  Profit Warning 

535 words
5 October 2000
15:25
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   WSJ.com Roundup



NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- J.C. Penney Co. warned that it will miss
expectations for its fiscal third quarter and may report a loss
following a decline in September sales.


 Federated Department Stores Inc., meanwhile, posted a sales increase for the month. 

 Penny, of Plano, Texas, said Thursday that September same-store sales - those at stores open at least a year - fell 4%. The chain blamed a "challenging retail environment" and continued disappointing results in its Eckerd drugstore operations, where the retailer expects to post an operating loss in the quarter. The company also pointed to more promotional activity than expected at its department stores. 

 Penney's total sales fell 0.9% to $2.83 billion, while department-store sales fell 4.8%. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected the company as a whole to earn 10 cents a share for the quarter, which ends Oct. 31. 

 September same-store sales at its drugstore operations, excluding about 300 recently closed underperforming stores, rose 8.8%, led by a 14.3% increase in pharmacy sales. But front-end same-store sales fell 1.2%. The retailer said more promotional activity than anticipated hurt operating profit. 

 Total drugstore sales for the five weeks ended Sept. 30, increased 3.8% to $1.196 billion. Catalog sales, which include jcpenney.com (www.jcpenney.com), decreased 2.9% for the month. Sales at jcpenney.com rose to $25 million in September from $7 million a year earlier. Sales at the retailer's direct-marketing services were flat at $93 million. 


   Federated Posts 2.9% Rise in Same-Store Sales



Federated of Cincinnati, reported that September same-store sales rose
2.9% from a year earlier. Total sales rose 2.2% to $1.63 billion, while
department-store sales rose 3.6% to $1.47 billion.



The retailer's direct-to-consumer sales fell 8.8% in September to $166
million. The direct-to-consumer segment includes the operations of
Fingerhut, Bloomingdale's By Mail, Bloomingdales.com, Macy's By Mail and
Macys.com. Federated operates department stores under the names of
Bloomingdale's, Bon Marche, Burdines, Goldsmith's, Lazarus, Macy's,
Rich's and Stern's.
   May's Same-Store Sales Inched Up 0.7%



May Department Stores Co. posted a 0.7% increase in same-store sales.
Total sales at the St. Louis retailer rose 6% to $1.30 billion.



The company didn't open any department stores in September.



For the year-to-date, however, May has opened 20 of the 23 new
department stores planned for the year. Its David's Bridal unit opened
four stores in September.



Last month, May warned that third-quarter earnings would fall below
estimates and last year's third-quarter results. The retailer blamed a
disappointing August, slow back-to-school sales and the fact that
clearance of spring and summer apparel was "more difficult than
expected." May operates department stores such as Lord & Taylor, Hecht's
and Filene's, as well as 113 bridal stores.



For continuously updated news from The Wall Street Journal, see
WSJ.com at
http://wsj.com.


5039 5042

Document dj00000020010805dwa503rka
?
 

BUSINESS
Blue chips lead the way as Nasdaq ends losses

Associated Press   
713 words
5 October 2000
Houston Chronicle
HOU
3 STAR
3
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK - Blue chips led Wall Street higher

Wednesday, lifting the Nasdaq composite index to its first positive finish this week despite a continuing slide in

technology stocks.

Lower oil prices made chemical companies and airlines

especially attractive buys to investors looking for less-risky investments. However, a profit warning from Dell Computer after the market closed raised the likelihood of a return to the market's losing streak today.

Dell fell $2.38 in after-hours trading after warning that it, like other high-profile tech companies, expected to report disappointing earnings. Dell fell 38 cents to $28.19 in

regular trading.

During the regular session, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 64.74 to 10,784.48, giving up ground after gaining more than 120 points during the day.

The tech-focused Nasdaq rose 67.27 to 3,523.10 after spending much of the day in negative territory. The gain erased some of Tuesday's 113-point loss, which left the index at its lowest close since late May.

The Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 7.86 at 1,434.32.

"I'd characterize the day as a rebound from the oversold

levels of yesterday, specifically in tech stocks," said Bob Streed, portfolio manager for the Northern Select Equity Fund. "This is just a bounce you're getting in some stocks. I don't think these gains are sustainable."

Bargain hunting after the market's recent weeks of decline prompted much of Wednesday's upturn. Buyers were drawn to shares of chemical and airlines stocks, believing that heavily oil-dependent companies will see a reduction in costs as the price of crude falls. A barrel of light, sweet crude traded at $31.43 Wednesday, down from nearly $38 last month.

DuPont rose $1 to $45.38 and Dow Chemical was up 31 cents at $27.25. Investors bid Delta Air Lines up $1.88 to $45.75; Continental Airlines rose $1.38 to $47.

Technology stocks spent much of the day down, but staged a mild recovery after Oracle issued a statement reaffirming a positive earnings outlook.

The software maker itself ended the day down $1.38 at $68.13, but recovered from an earlier loss of as much as $6. The stock fell 12 percent Tuesday.

Bargain hunting also prompted buying in chip makers, whose stock prices have generally drifted downward. Intel rose $1.69 to $42 and Micron Technology was up $3.94 to $47.

Among stocks that issued bleak earnings announcements, Knight Trading fell $3.69 to $28.50. Investors, however, bid Computer Associates up $3.63 to $28.06 after it said late Tuesday that earnings would be below Wall Street estimates.

Old-economy stocks got most of the attention. Boeing was up for a second day, rising $1.25 to $61.13. International Paper climbed $1.88 to $31.50.

AT&T rose 63 cents to $29.75 on published reports it may spin off its struggling consumer long-distance business. BellSouth was up $1.94 to $42.94 and SBC climbed $1.69 to $51.63 after the companies said they would make a major announcement today. Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 13-to-10 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. Consolidated volume came to 1.39 billion shares, ahead of the 1.31 billion shares in the last session.

The Russell 2000 index rose 2.82 to 507.49.

The price of a 30-year treasury bond was unchanged. The yield remained at 5.94 percent.

In Mexico, the bolsa was up 114.64, or 1.84 percent, to

6,345.53. Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 1.49 percent. Germany's DAX index fell 0.57 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 was off 0.16 percent, and France's CAC-40 fell 1.63 percent.

In New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 109.38 yen, up from 108.86 yen. It was quoted at 9.450 pesos, up from 9.402. The peso's value was 10.582 cents, down from 10.636 cents. The euro was quoted at 87.45 cents, down from 87.46 cents.

Document HOU0000020120818dwa501td0
?
 

DBusiness
Blue-chip stocks rise; tech shares keep falling; Chemical firms, airlines seen as bargains after oil prices drop

LISA SINGHANIA; Associated Press   
602 words
5 October 2000
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
MLWK
Final
02
English
Copyright 2000, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Blue chips led Wall Street higher Wednesday, lifting the Nasdaq Composite Index to its first positive finish of the week despite a continuing slide in technology stocks.

Lower oil prices made chemical companies and airlines especially attractive buys to investors looking for less-risky investments. However, a profit warning from Dell Computer after the market closed raised the likelihood of a return to the losing streak today.

Dell fell $2 in after-hours trading after warning that it, like other high-profile tech companies, expects to report disappointing earnings.

In regular trading, Dell had already fallen 38 cents, to $28.19.

During the regular session, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 64.74, to 10,784.48, giving up ground after gaining more than 120 points during the day.

The tech-focused Nasdaq rose 67.27, to 3523.10, after spending much of the day in negative territory.

The gain erased some of Tuesday's 113-point loss, which had left the index at its lowest close since late May.

The Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 7.86 at 1434.32.

The Russell 2000 Index rose 2.82, to 507.49.

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 7-to-5 ratio on the New York Stock Exchange.

"This is just a bounce you're getting in some stocks," said Bob Streed, portfolio manager for the Northern Select Equity Fund.

"I don't think these gains are sustainable."

Bargain-hunting after the market's recent weeks of decline prompted much of Wednesday's upturn.

Investors, while increasingly anxious about third-quarter earnings reports due out this month, were still looking for good buys.

Buyers were drawn to shares of chemical and airline stocks, believing that heavily oil-dependent companies will have lower costs as the price of oil falls.

A barrel of light sweet crude traded Wednesday at $31.43, down from nearly $38 last month.

Wednesday's stock market highlights:

DuPont rose $1, to $45.38, and Dow Chemical was up 31 cents at $27.25. Investors bid Delta Air Lines up $1.88, to $45.75; Continental Airlines rose $1.38, to $47.

Technology stocks spent much of the day down but staged a mild recovery after Oracle issued a statement reaffirming a positive earnings outlook. The software-maker itself ended the day down $1.38 at $68.13 but recovered from an earlier loss of as much as $6.

The stock had fallen 12% Tuesday.

Bargain-hunting also prompted buying of chip-makers, whose stock prices have generally drifted downward. Intel rose $1.69, to $42, and Micron Technology was up $4.06, to $47.13.

Among stocks that issued bleak earnings announcements, Knight Trading fell $3.69, to $28.50.

But Computer Associates rose $3.63, to $28.06, even though it said late Tuesday that earnings would be below Wall Street estimates.

Old-economy stocks got most of the attention. Boeing was up for a second day, rising $1.25, to $61.13. International Paper climbed $1.88, to $31.50.

AT&T rose 63 cents, to $29.75, on published reports that it may spin off its struggling consumer long-distance business. BellSouth was up $1.94, to $42.94, and SBC climbed $1.81, to $51.75, after the companies said they would make a major announcement today.

Among Wisconsin-based companies, Regal Beloit gained $1 to close at $18. Gehl was down $1.25 at $10.

Document MLWK000020100320dwa50167v
?
 

 FFBN Financials Wrap: Group Weakens On Earnings Outlook 

804 words
5 October 2000
13:04
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
        (This market wrap was originally published Wednesday evening.)



        WASHINGTON (FFBN)--Profit-taking and an earnings warning from Knight
Trading Group Inc. put a damper on the Federal Filings financials indexes
Wednesday.
        Knight Trading said it will report lower-than-expected third quarter
earnings because of a difficult market environment in the late summer and
expenses to build its international market-making capabilities.  By day's
end, Knight Trading had slipped 11%, or $3.69, to $28.50.
        Knight Trading's warning shifted the spotlight to other brokers,
which in turn slipped lower. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. fell 3.9%, or $4.44, to
$109.44, while Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. declined 3.3%, or $4.75, to
$140.63.
        On the whole, the Federal Filings Brokerage Index declined 2.2%, or
6,537, to 288,045.7.
        Banking stocks didn't escape the downward shift.  The Federal Filings
Banking Index fell 0.9%, or 4,271.4, to 488,804.4.  And news of further
consolidation within the banking sector didn't stem the decline.  Firstar
Corp. said it will purchase U.S. Bancorp for about $21.1 billion in stock.
The new institution, which would have assets of more than $160 billion, would
 become the eight-largest U.S. banking institution.  Firstar lost 10%, or
$2.25, to $20, while U.S. Bancorp gained 7.8%, or $1.81, to $25.
        The merger, however, is increasing pressure on smaller banks to
increase their size for competitive purposes.  As a result, banks thought to
be potential acquirers traded down Thursday, while those seen as targets
traded up.
        First Union, which rose 5.2%, was among those companies considered
takeover targets.  The stock closed up $1.69 to $34.13.
        Meanwhile, the Federal Filings Insurance Index declined 0.2%, or
1,169.8, to 500,084.
        Turning to the broad markets, the Dow Jones Industrial Average
advanced 64.74, or 0.6%, to 10,784.48, while the Standard & Poor's 500-Stock
Market gained 7.86, or 0.55%, to 1,434.32.  The Nasdaq Composite Index rose
67.27, or 2%, to 3,523.10.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                            Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
TRUSTCO BANK CORP.                Close   Change  Change   00E   01E
                                 $12.33   +$0.08  +0.64% $0.76 $0.83
TrustCo Bank Corp. raised its tender offer for Cohoes Bancorp Inc. to $18 a
share in cash and stock from $16 a share in stock, according to an amended
registration statement filed Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  TrustCo also increased its tender offer for Hudson River Bancorp
Inc. to $17 a share in cash and stock from the original offer of $14 a share
in stock.  An exact exchange ratio for both tenders will be set using
TrustCo's average closing price over a yet-to-be-determined time period.
                                            Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
WEBSTER FINANCIAL CORP.           Close   Change  Change   00E   01E
                                 $25.69   -$0.63  -2.38% $2.51 $2.74
Webster Financial Corp.'s Webster Bank signed a definitive agreement to sell
its Olde Port Bank division to Granite Bank, a New Hampshire-based unit of
Granite State Bankshares Inc.  The companies didn't release the deal's terms.
 Webster Financial anticipates the transaction will close by year-end.  Olde
Port's two branch offices in Portsmouth and Hampton have a total of $47
million in loans and $47 million in deposits.
                                            Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
MERCANTILE BANK CORP              Close   Change  Change   00E   01E
                                 $12.25   +$0.38  +3.16% $1.00 $1.18
Mercantile Bank Corp. President and Chief Executive Michael Price said the
Grand Rapids, Mich., bank expects to report third-quarter earnings of 29
cents to 33 cents a share.  Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial
predict the company will earn 27 cents a share for the quarter.  Mercantile
Bank reported an upside earnings surprise in the second quarter, with
operating earnings of 28 cents a share, 5 cents better than the First Call
consensus.
                                            Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
INTERCOUNTY BANCSHARES            Close   Change  Change   00E   01E
                                    $16        0       0   N/A   N/A
Intercounty Bancshares Inc. said it boosted its loan loss provisions for the
third quarter and restructured a portion of its securities portfolio, both of
which will significantly affect its third quarter and 2000 results.  In a
Form 8K filed Wednesday with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Intercounty Bancshares said it boosted its loan loss provisions for the third
quarter to $725,000.
The company, however, didn't spell out projected third quarter or full-year
results.  Intercounty Bancshares said it increased its loan loss provisions
because of problems concerning a single business customer with outstanding
loan balances of about $6.1 million.



08:04


Document ff00000020010806dwa501dui
?
 

 3rd-quarter Mutual Funds And Stock Report 
 WORKING HARD, GAINING LITTLE AFTER 6 MONTHS GOING NOWHERE, INVESTORS LOOK FOR MARKETS TO BREAK LOOSE 

 Bill Barnhart 
1,181 words
4 October 2000
Chicago Tribune
TRIB
Chicago Sports Final ; N
1
English
 (Copyright 2000 by the Chicago Tribune) 

 Bond fund manager Glenn Migliozzi of Fleet Investment Advisors, stepping off a plane after a flight to Boston from New York recently, heard an arresting announcement over the airport's public-address system. 

 His airline alerted passengers from his flight that someone had left a bag of Krispy Kremes on the plane. He and about a half-dozen other departing passengers did U-turns and instinctively grabbed to check the contents of their carry-ons. (They don't sell the doughnuts in Boston.) 

 Investors who had thought they could walk past the third quarter with the sweet August rally firmly in hand were similarly disrupted in September, when stocks--including Krispy Kreme--suddenly reversed course. 

 High-profile warnings about revenue and profit outlooks, notably by semiconductor giant Intel and Apple Computer, confirmed September's historical place as the roughest month to be in the stock market. 

 Heading into the last three months of the year, few active investors will be letting down their guard. 

 To hear some analysts tell it, stock and bond markets are in a fragile balance as a result of sharply conflicting tensions. 

 On the one hand, investors fear that an economic slowdown will significantly curb corporate sales and profit growth. 

 On the other hand, inflationary pressures from higher oil prices and the potential erosion of the federal surplus as the principal election outcome likely will keep the Federal Reserve talking tough, even if interest rates remain stable. 

 Breaking the tension may not be pleasant. 

 "I believe there will be a destabilizing event for which the Fed will have to move for liquidity," Migliozzi said. He noted that two years ago, the Fed cut interest rates in the face of bond market gridlock caused by the Russian debt default, Asian currency scare and the near collapse of a major U.S. hedge fund. 

 A similar surprise cannot be ruled out as 2000 draws to a close, he said. 

 But worries may be overstated. True, volatility in the stock market resumed in September after an August lull. But volatility remains well below its April peak. 

 Key stock indexes, including those of technology stocks, faded in September, but they stand at the low end of a rather dull six-month trading range. Many active investors have been running in place since late spring. 

 As an off-beat indicator, viewership of CNBC, the frenetic cable financial news channel frequented by many active investors, has fallen by 13 percent since the wild days of April, according to Nielsen Media Research--a welcome sign of normalcy returning to markets. 

 Certainly, September's troubles reflect weakening corporate profit growth and the prospect for reduced consumer spending. 

 But the month's action also looks like the revenge of bored professional traders, who busied themselves by causing outsized reactions to the most incidental pieces of news. 

 Beneath the headlines of sell-offs in major indexes, market breadth has been expanding--an upbeat indicator, said James Weiss, chief investment officer for equities at State Street Research. 

 An important indicator, the number of stocks advancing minus the number declining on the New York Stock Exchange, moved higher for much of the third quarter as investors sought bargains in previously out-of-favor sectors. 

 Utility stocks, for example, soared 30 percent in the quarter. Real estate-related stocks are enjoying a banner year. 

 Even last Friday, in the wake of a wrenching profit warning by Apple Computer, more stocks advanced than declined on the NYSE and trading volume remained moderate. Losers topped winners by only a narrow margin on the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index. 

 Fifty-three percent of the stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500 index, which is weighted by the market capitalization of its component companies, were outperforming the index in September, Weiss said. 

 A year ago, when the market was marching to the tune of a handful of big-name tech stocks, only 35 percent of the S&P 500 stocks were beating the index. 

 "Last year, it was all large-cap growth" stocks, Weiss said. "Everything else was a joke." 

 So far this year, the S&P index of midcap stocks has turned in an impressive performance, including a 12 percent gain in the third quarter, beating all the major market benchmarks. 

 Rex Sinquefield, chief investment officer at Dimensional Fund Advisors, says small-capitalization stocks are staging a rebound here and abroad. 

 "Small caps are 10 percent above the S&P 500 in the United States and internationally," he said. 

 Indeed, the smaller the better, according to returns for Sinquefield's array of index funds. So-called micro-cap stocks were up about 12 percent on a year-to-date basis, compared with a 2 percent decline for the firm's large-cap portfolio and a 12 percent decline for the firm's large-cap international fund. 

 Nevertheless, improving market breadth will not prevent rough days ahead, especially when bad news hits bellwether tech stocks or an unforeseen international crisis suddenly erodes global investor confidence. 

 In that regard, the fourth quarter will be important as the first period in which a new Securities and Exchange Commission disclosure rule takes effect. The rule bars companies from selectively leaking material information to favored analysts or shareholders, a widespread practice on Wall Street. 

 Like Krispy Kreme fans in the Boston airport, all investors are supposed to receive material information at the same time, the SEC ruled. 

 Already, corporate executives, money managers and analysts are worried about perverse consequences. 

 "Going into the fourth-quarter earnings reporting season, there will be a high degree of uncertainty and hence a wider dispersion of expectations and more opportunity to be exhilarated or disappointed," Weiss said. 

SPECIAL SECTION. 3rd-quarter Mutual Funds and Stock Report.

 GRAPHICS 10; Caption: GRAPHIC (color): Illustration by Neil Shigley. GRAPHIC:  Mutual funds quarterly report. Source: Morningstar Inc., Chicago - See microfilm for complete Mutual Fund quarterly report. GRAPHIC:  Mutual fund leaders. - Top 10 U.S. equity funds, quarter ended September 30. - Top 10 international funds, quarter ended September 30. - Top 10 U.S. taxable bond funds, quarter ended September 30. - Source: Morningstar Inc. - See microfilm for complete graphic. GRAPHIC:  Mutual fund laggards. - Bottom 10 U.S. equity funds, quarter ended September 30. - Bottom 10 international funds, quarter ended September 30. - Bottom 10 U.S. taxable bond funds, quarter ended September 30. Source: Morningstar Inc. - See microfilm for complete graphic. GRAPHIC: New York Stock Exchange quarterly report. - See microfilm for complete report. GRAPHIC:  Major stock market indexes. - Dow Jones industrial average (July-September) - S&P 500 index (July-September) - Nasdaq (July-September) - NYSE (July-September) - Russell 2000 index (July-September) - Amex (July-September) - See microfilm for complete graphic. GRAPHIC: Nasdaq quarterly report. - See microfilm for complete graphic. GRAPHIC:  Nasdaq small-cap quarterly report. - See microfilm for complete report. GRAPHIC: American Stock Exchange quarterly report. - See microfilm for complete report. GRAPHIC:  First-quarter dividend announcements. - See microfilm for complete graphic. 

Document trib000020010813dwa40216w
?
 

 Tecnomatix sees 2000 revenues flat on year. 

333 words
4 October 2000
16:41
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 JERUSALEM, Oct 4 (Reuters) - Israel-based software firm Tecnomatix, which issued a profits warning on Tuesday, said on Wednesday it expects 2000 revenues to be flat compared with the previous year. 

 "I think at the rate we're going right now we're seeing revenues in 2000 being flat with the previous year and certainly we are expecting an improvement in the growth rate for next year," company president and CEO Harel Beit-On said in a conference call. 

 On Tuesday, Tecnomatix issued a second consecutive quarterly profit warning due to weak European currencies and the failure to close contracts. The European currency issue alone will likely have taken $4.5 million off the top line to date in 2000 as nearly half the firm's sales are to that region, Beit-On said. 

 The company expects to post a net loss of $5 million for the third quarter on a pro forma basis, excluding one-time charges, based on an expected $20 million in revenues. 

 Tecnomatix said its process of introducing a comprehensive e-Manufacturing solution has taken longer than expected after having approached 40 customers with the product. 

 The firm's software helps optimise production processes for the automotive, aerospace and electronics industries. Revenues from the e-Manufacturing product should account for 5 to 10 percent of sales in the third quarter, Beit-On said. 

 Beit-On said customer satisfaction and positive feedback rates were high "but at the top end we have to convince people about (making) a business change." 

 "We have not lost any of those accounts. We still expect to get those contracts," he said. 

 Beit-On added the company's balance sheet remains strong with $60 million in cash at the end of the second quarter, but that Tecnomatix may need to change its expense structure "to manage profitability better for the future." 

 Tecnomatix shares traded at $7-7/8 on Thursday, well below its year high of some $50. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa405hqm
?
 

 INTERVIEW-Nabi chief says treatment results misperceived. 

 By Jed Seltzer 
518 words
5 October 2000
00:06
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 4 (Reuters) - The top official at drug maker Nabi Inc. , whose stock slumped nearly 40 percent since last month, said investors had misinterpreted the results of a clinical trial for a blood infection treatment and it still plans to seek approval for the product. 

 The share drop was due to perceptions in the market that the trial of the StaphVax treatment was a failure and because of a profit warning from the company relating to production problems with other drugs. 

 "Clearly, we believe there was a misunderstanding in the financial community about whether this was a success or this failed," David Gury, Nabi's chairman, chief executive and president, told Reuters in an interview Wednesday. 

 Nabi's stock is down nearly 40 percent since the profit warning and clinical trial results were announced on Sept. 19. 

 Gury noted that the test showed the StaphVax treatment was effective in about 60 percent of tested patients 10 months after the treatment was administered. Investors focused on the study's findings that effectiveness faded by 12 months. 

 Gury said he intends to pursue U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval without going back to the drawing board, even though the test failed the company's stated goal of decreasing bloodstream infections by a statistically significant amount of patients after a year. 

 "The next step is to go through post-Phase III presentation to the FDA," Gury said. 

 Nabi's share price fell 9.6 percent on Wednesday, closing at $5-7/8, down 5/8 from Tuesday's close and far below the year high of $12. 

 Gury said he remains confident in the company's financial outlook and the status of StaphVax, a treatment that feeds antibodies to patients fighting life-threatening S. aureus bacteremias, or blood infections. 

 "We don't need a high stock price to finance the research. We certainly want a high stock price," Gury said. 

 Gury said that although the company intends to research extending the efficacy of the treatment past 10 months, he believes StaphVax can be submitted for review and approval using the current Phase III results. 

 "We believe that the results of the test shows that for nearly a year, more than 50 percent of the infections were reduced," he said. "We believe that 10 months protection is significant." 

 Gury said that unlike a drug candidate, where the drug either passed or failed the trial, a treatment such as StaphVax allows some flexibility in the timing of the product's efficacy. 

 "We'll be looking at additional trials boosting the treatment," Gury said. "We can boost some of those patients now that we know how they behaved." 

 He said the FDA could approve the treatment even as the company researches these adjustments. 

 Nabi shares stood at $9-3/4 on Sept. 19, when the company issued the test results and warned that production problems at its Canadian partner would hurt third-quarter profits. The Boca Raton, Fla.-based company also said it would have to tap a $3 million reserve. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa405hfe
?
 Chicago Tribune Market Report Column 

 Bill Barnhart 
722 words
4 October 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Big-name technology stocks continued to skid Tuesday, as the Nasdaq composite index suffered its third triple-digit loss in as many sessions and reached a new four-month low. 

 News that the Federal Reserve, as expected, would leave short-term interest rates unchanged appeared to bolster the market immediately after the Fed's policy meeting ended at midday. But Nasdaq traders quickly trashed a rally attempt. 

 "It looked to me like we turned a corner, and then we turned another corner," said Alfred Kugel, investment strategist at Stein Roe & Farnham in Chicago. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 113.07 points, or 3.2 percent, to 3455.83. It was the biggest daily percentage decline in the tech-heavy index since July 28. 

 Business software maker Oracle led the selloff, plunging nearly 12 percent, to $69.50. Applied Materials, Sun Microsystems and Microsoft also lost ground. 

 Wit Soundview, a tech research firm, downgraded several semiconductor fabrication stocks, including Applied Materials. But tech stalwarts Intel and Cisco Systems posted modest gains as the Nasdaq's two most-active issues. 

 Nasdaq volume was a moderate 1.94 billion shares, with losers outnumbering winners by just a 5-to-3. 

 Upbeat morning comments about the tech sector by Goldman Sachs investment strategist Abby Joseph Cohen were ignored in the afternoon. She said the sector was due for a rebound; Goldman analysts recommended Oracle, Cisco, Juniper Networks and EMC. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 19.61, to 10,719.74, on New York Stock Exchange volume of 1.09 billion shares. Losers beat winners by a slim 15-13 margin. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index slipped 9.77, or 1426.46. The Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks dropped 7.00, or 1.4 percent, to 504.67. 

 Some analysts watching the Nasdaq selloff cited the seasonal fear of an October surprise in the stock market. October has been the month of major market corrections since at least 1929. 

 Other market watchers pointed to an Internet chat room rumor that International Business Machines would issue a third-quarter profitwarning. Analysts dismissed the rumor, and IBM issued no statement. But IBM, which gained $3.06 on Monday, dropped $7.25 on Tuesday, to $110.56. 

 In addition, many investors probably were squeamish ahead of Tuesday night's debate between Republican George W. Bush and Democrat Al Gore. 

 "The high-volatility event is not so much the Fed as the debates," said James Bianco, bond market analyst for Bianco Research in Barrington. With no clear leader in the polls, the debates are expected to have a crucial effect on the outcome, he said. 

 The consensus view on Wall Street is that the political status quo--a Democrat in the White House and Republican control in Congress--is the most desirable election result. A big win for Gore in the debate might tip the balance in Congress for the Democrats, according to a popular view. 

 "Returns in the bond market during periods of unified government are an unqualified disaster," Bianco said, citing the first two years of the Clinton administration and the four years of the Carter administration. 

 "In every two-year period under unified Democratic government, cash has beaten bonds," he said. 

 The bond market turned in "average" performance the last time Republicans controlled both the White House and Congress, from 1952 to 1954, Bianco added. 

 Value rebound: Investor interest in so-called value stocks, which are those trading at relatively low prices compared with recent earnings, swelled in the just-ended third quarter, according to analysts at mutual fund tracker Lipper. 

 That's bad news for the Nasdaq composite index and related Nasdaq indexes, which are dominated by a handful of giant tech stocks. 

 Edward Rosenbaum, Lipper's director of research, comments in a report: "Value funds have been putting up good relative numbers off and on for a year, but growth funds have been getting all the headlines. Now, with growth funds' performance reverting to the mean, value funds' strong performance is finally getting noticed." 

 Value stocks in the S&P 500 rallied in August but fell in early September. Since mid-September, value stocks have resumed their rally, whereas the steady September slide in growth stocks has persisted into October. 

Document krtbn00020010807dwa401tnx
?
 Business 
 IN THE MONEY 

 Bill Tucker, Sasha Salama 
7,338 words
4 October 2000
16:00
CNNfn: In The Money
ITHM
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 BILL TUCKER, CNNfn ANCHOR, IN THE MONEY:  Guidant  (URL: http://www.guidant.com/) is paying the price of an earnings warning. For more, let`s bring in Christine Romans down at the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Christine, it would appear that we`re off to a pretty positive start down there. 

 CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  We are, despite a smattering of earnings and revenue warnings on the Street again today.  The market, still bracing for what they say could be even - what analysts say could even be more earnings warnings down the road.  But they`re bucking those worries, at least today.  And the old economy is in the midst of a rally.  And that`s why you`ve got the Dow up triple-digits here.  But Guidant is not so lucky, G-D-T is the ticker symbol.  It warned for its revenue.  And now the stock is paying the price. Shareholders are selling that one off.  Greg Clarkin will have more details on this later in the program.  But this is a company that makes cardiovascular devices.  It warned for its revenue. And it is - several firms on the Street are cutting their estimates now for Guidant shares and for earnings estimates as well.  So we`ll continue to watch this one.  G-D-T is the ticker symbol. Computer Associates (URL: http://www.cai.com) is another one we`re watching.  It also had a warning late yesterday.  But the stock is actually trading pretty stable.  In fact, up about 3 1/2 points here, trading at a level of 28, as you can see from your banner there.  The close yesterday at the New York Stock Exchange was about 24 1/2.  It said it expects to report Q2 earnings of 50 to 54 cents a share.  That misses the Street`s expectations of 56 cents a share.  It`s b1aming a weak euro.  We`ve heard that before.  Here`s the twist, despite that warning, Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown is saying that the miss is due to marketplace uncertainties about mainframe software prices. They expect a fourth quarter rebound and beyond.  And they`re maintaining their strong buy on the stock.  So Computer Associates, doing all right, despite what some had worried would roil the market today.  And IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) , the Dow component, been watching this one, sold off sharply yesterday.  It`s actually stabilizing at this hour from some earlier losses.  There has been talk in the markets about, can IBM, maybe, remain immune to some of the other worries that we`re seeing on the Street. And so you`ve you seen stock sell-off yesterday, stabilizing from its early losses.  Merrill Lynch making some slight changes to their profit estimate, rolling a penny of earnings from the third quarter into the fourth quarter. The market digesting that news this morning.  And now that stock moving up about five eighths. 

 Back to you. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Christine, thank you, Christine Romans at the New York Stock Exchange. 

 SASHA SALAMA, CNNfn ANCHOR, IN THE MONEY:  And the Nasdaq adding to its 15 percent year-to-date slide, but trying to push into the plus column. The earnings warnings keep rolling in.  And we should point out that market breadth is negative by quite a strong margin.  The latest warning, by the way,  from the biggest market maker at the Nasdaq. 

 Charles Molineaux is at the Nasdaq with all the details - Charles. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  And Sasha, we were up on the Nasdaq for a while, honest, take a look.  This market has actually been bouncing all over the place.  The graph for what happened over the course of the day today looks like an electrocardiogram.  But there was a period, about a minute-and-a-half ago, we actually saw the Nasdaq move all the way up to 3,459.  That was a gain of three points.  The rest of the day has been a wild swing, but always within negative territory right up until then.  And here we are once again, up by one point on the Nasdaq at 3,457. But we`ve got a really lousy performance by the financial stocks, weighing this market down 2.7 percent.  And yes, Knight Trading (URL: http://www.knight-sec.com/) is a big part of that. Down by 15 percent on the day today.  This is the market maker formerly known as Knight/Trimark.  The company is warning it`s going to miss the estimates for its third quarter because of market volatility, falling trading volumes, and expenses associated with its overseas expansion. It is now expecting to report a profit of 13 to 15 cents a share.  The market First Call consensus had been 31.  This comes just after ABN AMRO cut its forecast for nice profits and downgraded the stock. Carrier Access (URL: http://www.carrieraccess.com/) , down 36 percent, a loss of 750. Carrier is a telecommunications equipment maker, and it says it will see a shortfall in its third quarter earnings, 15-18 cents a share versus an expectation of a profit of 32 cents a share.  And, of course, another of our big names, Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) is now down by almost eight percent or 5.50, at $64 a share.  Oracle has actually been delivering some bullish spin at its Oracle Open World Conference in San Francisco.  But that bullishness is getting hobbled by the analysts.  This morning, Merrill Lynch said Oracle`s pricey stock valuation will keep it from seeing much upward movement anytime soon.  Merrill analysts say they can see no near-term catalyst for the stock, in the midst of what is a difficult market for software stocks. Merrill is maintaining its near-term accumulate, long-term buy rating on Oracle.  However, we do have, from CIBC World Markets, comments that the company is expected to be on track for a strong 2001 fiscal year. Nonetheless, down goes Oracle, down by 7.8 percent.  While the Nasdaq right now is back down again, a little bit less than a half a point - Bill, Sasha. 

 SALAMA:  Boy, wasn`t it just a few weeks ago Oracle came in with that blockbuster report? so much for that. 

 MOLINEAUX:  And it`s all about valuations. 

 SALAMA:  OK, thanks very much, Charles Molineaux. 

 TUCKER:  Well, a sharp rise in supplies of U.S. gasoline and crude inventories are helping ease oil prices just a bit.  The latest American Petroleum Institute report shows weekly U.S. crude stocks rising by 3.4 million barrels.  Meanwhile, higher oil prices are expected to boost OPEC`s revenues by about 70 percent this year.  OPEC, however, reportedly doesn`t plan to reinvest those proceeds into increasing production.  The "Wall Street Journal" reports that after making adjustments for inflation, OPEC countries just aren`t as rich as they were 20 years ago.  Light sweet crude currently trading down 64 cents a barrel, $31.43 is the going price here in New York. 

 Well, the Nasdaq has been hammered lately, as you probably well know, because of concerns in PC sales - having a lot to do with the weakness. Our next guest doesn`t think that the immediate future is any brighter. 

 SALAMA:  Joining us now from Boston is Bernice Behar.  She`s portfolio and small-cap growth fund  manager for John Hancock Funds. 

 Welcome to IN THE MONEY, thanks for joining us. 

 BERNICE BEHAR, JOHN HANCOCK FUNDS:  Good morning, it`s nice to be here. 

 SALAMA:  Can you characterize for us just how dire a problem this is, demand for PCs and PC components? because there still seems to be a bit of a debate on Wall Street about it? 

 BEHAR:  Well, I think it`s really the debate that`s the problem. There may be some near-term volatility in technology related to the uncertainty as to what the PC demand is going to be going forward.  And I would also point out there`s a lot of uncertainty regarding the spending for telecom equipment going into the next year as well.  This is the time of year where these kinds of debates are raging.  And that`s why we think the short-term outlook, although I wouldn`t say is dire, we`re a little bit concerned about the short-term outlook, given the volatility in technology. 

 TUCKER:  Well, look, most people are probably heavily invested in stocks because those were the places to put your money.  And I`m sure a lot of people are out there this morning scratching their heads, going, what went wrong here?  Suddenly the hottest sector of the market has been just the absolute coldest place to be.  You addressed part of it with the PC sector, but what`s wrong with tech stocks? what`s going on here, Bernice? 

 BEHAR:  Look at the last couple of years.  September and October are often difficult times.  We have - we get a lot of pre-announcements toward this time of year when companies are just coming off a slow summer season. It`s not surprising to see volatility in technology at this time of year. And as I said, there have been some questions about growth rates going forward. I do think that we`ll see that there will be continued strong demand for technology going forward, but we have to get through this period of time. 

 SALAMA:  And yet, technology accounts for more than a third of your portfolio exposure.  Where are you  invested? and how are you adjusting your positions in this environment? 

 BEHAR:  Right, we have about a third of our assets, a little more than a third, in technology.  Our benchmark,, the Russell 2000 Growth Index, is similarly positioned.  So I wouldn`t say that we`re certainly overweighted there at all.  But, we`ve been looking to some other groups this year. We have a very strong weighting in health care, over 20 percent of the portfolio in health care stocks.  We have a strong weighting in energy stocks.  And we think that those are going to continue to be good performers, over 10 percent of the portfolio, in energy. 

 TUCKER:  All right. Bernice, thank you. Bernice Behar with John Hancock, coming to us out of Boston this morning. Thanks, Bernice. 

 BEHAR:  Thank you. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:   How sweet it is. Food and beverage giant PepsiCo earlier this morning said earned $826 million in latest quarter. That works out to about 40 cents a share. And that beat the Street`s expectations by a penny. The company also said that the chairman and CEO Roger Enrico would step down from those positions by end of 2002.  Enrico had been at helm for just over four years steering PepsiCo through some tough times.  Could now maybe be a good time it pick up shares? PepsiCo is our stock of the day. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 TUCKER: Back in 1898 Pepsi`s investor thought that soft drink cured dyspepsia but it`s PepsiCo`s profits,  these days, that keeps investors` indigestion at bay. Pepsi Cola remains the number two soft to arch-rival 

 Coca-Cola,  with 31percent of market compared to Coke`s 44 percent. But PepsiCo`s other properties are work horses of the company. Namely, it`s Frito-lay snack division and Tropicana juices. Departing chairman and CEO Roger Enrico did much to expand the Pepsi brand. He spun off the company`s fast-food business in 1997 and the majority of its bottling operations last year. And only a quarter of PepsiCo`s $20 billion in annual sales comes from its soft drink division. But PepsiCo is on a mission to topple Coca-Cola from the number one spot in soft drink sales.  While Coke stock has gone flat this year. PepsiCo`s share price is positively bubbly. The stock has climbed 44 percent in past 12 months, hitting a new 52-week high of 48 yesterday. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 TUCKER:  Coming down off that 52-week high today, perhaps not surprisingly, down 1 1/8 from 44 7/8. For more on PepsiCo,  and just off of the company`s conference call , let`s bring in Skip Carpenter. He`s the beverage analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. Skip, good morning and thanks for coming on. 

 SKIP CARPENTER, BEVERAGE ANALYST, DLJ: Thank you. 

 TUCKER:  You have a stock rate at a  buy rating . You just got off the conference call,  you hear anything new  that would confirm that  buy rating  or make you a little concerned about the buy rating? 

 CARPENTER: No concerns whatsoever. This company continues to fire on all 

 four cylinders business trends are extremely strong. And Frito-Lay is really delivering strong profitability. Tropicana had profits grow 25 percent in this recent quarter. Its the beverage business both domestically as well as internationally. Saw profits in excess of 20 percent growth in this quarter. They have strong momentum heading into fourth quarter. But more importantly, they really have a strong focused franchise that is going to continue to deliver strong long-term profit growth for this business. 

 TUCKER: With growth so good outside of all of the areas, I mean, in particular with the Frito-Lay division. Is it really that important?  I guess symbolically,  it might be for PepsiCo so overtake Coke in terms of the market share. 

 CARPENTER: In my opinion, that`s not foremost in terms of what management`s driving this company. Management, I think,  will continue to focus on delivering high quality, consistent double-digit earnings growth and in improving returns on invested capital. Their goal is to make themselves, 

 in my opinion, the dominant global snack food company. And also continue to solidify their  number two position in the soft drink business. For them to feel that they can overtake Coke as number one global soft drink player, I think that would be a stretch. 

 TUCKER: Steve Rhineman (ph) has been the appointed  one to take over from Roger Enrico. Enrico certainly has won the confidence as we saw from that graph of Wall Street. What`s ahead? 

 CARPENTER: Well,  I think that this is a very appropriate time, sort of a -- somewhat of a changing of the guard.  Roger -- while he will continue on with the company over next two years as they transition this, the titles --really has, I thought, brought a lot of strategic revamping , strategic vision. The company,  in my opinion, is really,  I think, poised to continue on in terms of what he has created here. And I think at an appropriate time to give reins over to Steve. Who has done a tremendous job in terms of orchestrating the growth that they`ve seen out of Frito-Lay over past seven years. 

 TUCKER:  All right. Skip, thanks for joining us. Skip Carpenter again beverage analyst at DLJ. 

 SALAMA: Now that you`ve heard about PepsiCo, head down to the bottom of CNNfn.com and cast your vote. Tell us whether or not we should add the stock to the portfolio. And let`s take a look at the result`s from yesterday. Corel (URL: http://www.corel.com/) was the "stock of the day" yesterday, the software maker.  Forty-seven percent of you do recommend we buy the stock to our portfolio,  so Corel gets a red light in our "money indicator".  And we are not buying any of  it because 53 percent of you said - don`t. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 SALAMA:  Welcome back to IN THE MONEY. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah. 

 SALAMA:  I`m Sasha Salama. 

 TUCKER:  And I`m Bill Tucker.  We have the markets again diverging in their ways.  The Dow has come off of its highs by half.  We did have triple digit gains there, but we`re seeing it has moderated somewhat. The Nasdaq composite, well, about a half hour ago it tried to go positive on us, but didn`t.  Look at what`s happening here.  It is now down 41 points, headed back towards it lows of the session, at a low so far of 3,382.  And that`s important as we are getting some near some key support levels. 

 For a closer look behind the numbers, we have Christine Romans at the New York Stock Exchange and Charles Molineaux at the blue wall of the Nasdaq MarketSite.  Christine, let`s start with you.  What`s the talk on the floor? 

 CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Well, the talk is that the Dow hasn`t been able to maintain those triple digit gains.  One thing to keep an eye on is the fact that the advance-decline line was negative. That means losing stocks are beating out advancing stocks, even as the Dow was up triple digits on the morning.  And that has disappointed some.  And as that realization has spread, you`ve got the Dow giving up some of its best gains, though it is still firm here, still being led by an old economy rally.  Overall, there`s this sector rotation within a broad range in the markets.  Folks are telling me that they are trying to find value in all of this uncertainty on the street as the tech sector is tense.  They`re trying to park their money in some under performing sectors that they hope might, perhaps, and sort of recovery going forward.  However, there are pundits here who say they expect a shift to a vigil into the payrolls out on Friday, the granddaddy of all economic reports.  And they say with the Fed out of the way and payrolls ahead, if you start to see people to come into a bit of uncertainty, you might see a little bit of sideways action as we head into Friday.  And overall, some folks are saying that oversold markets deserve a bounce.  That`s where you saw some of the buying here today, but they are still not convinced about any kind of continued upside.  So, you`re seeing a market that continues to top around within a range.  And I have to tell you, inside of a range, there still can be pain even though it is range trading. 

 For a look at how things are trading over at the Nasdaq MarketSite, let`s talk to Charles Molineaux.  Charles, what are they saying over there? 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Yeah.  Well, you know, it`s - if this market deserves a bounce, it`s not getting one.  Or actually, it`s getting a whole bunch of them, but they`re all well within negative territory.  We`re down by 43 points right now at 3,412.  But look at the course this market has taken over the course of the session.  We started off negative.  At the moment, though, that turned into a session high and plunged downward and, look, a bounce and another bounce and another bounce. Numerous attempts at rallies over the course of the session. We actually hit a session high of 3,459.  That was up by 3 points very briefly, and then back down again.  And here we are sliding back down towards our session lows.  At the moment, we are off by 43 points at 3,412.  We`ve got pretty busy volume too, 865 million shares traded. But financials are dragging down 3 1/2 percent.  Biotechs down almost as much.  Computers down by 2 percent.  But chip stocks are actually pulling off gains.  They are up by better than 1 percent right now.  One sector that was looking positive up until a couple of minutes ago was the Internets, also up slightly, but now down fractionally.  So, we`re looking at a very varied picture among the sectors.  And we`re looking at an advance-decline ratio of about two to one in favor of stocks going down.  So, the breadth of the market has been negative throughout the day.  At the moment, we are off by 42 points at 3,413 on our way back down. 

 Bill.  Sasha. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Charles, thank you.  Charles Molineaux at the Nasdaq. 

 There are two rival disk makers joining forces.  Maxtor is acquiring Quantum`s Disk Drive unit for about $1.3 billion in stock.  That is roughly $14.86 a share.  The deal does not include Quantum`s Storage Systems unit. Maxtor says it will take a charge of $180 million on the completion of the merger.  Shares of Quantum`s Disk Drive unit up nicely.  Look at this, up 2 on news that it is being bought.  Maxtor, which is spending its money, of course, heading down the road a little bit, losing about $1.75. 

 SALAMA:  For the second quarter in a row, Computer Associates says it won`t meet the street expectations.  The software company says it will earn between 50 and 54 cents a share in the second quarter, and that`s short of the 56 cents that analysts had expected.  Now, CA surprised the street in July with its first warning.  As you can see, that stock really took a dive.  It`s down 65 percent this year.  Today, though, CA shares are actually up nearly 3 on comments from Deutsche Bank Alex Brown that while the latest results were below estimates, they actually reflect a solid performance in what`s called a very difficult environment.  And just quickly on this theme of warnings, I want to just mention that BMC Software also warned.  And BMCS is down about 1 1/2. 

 TUCKER:  It is puzzling, and it`s interesting, that we put that out there. The company warns.  It goes down.  You would expect CA warns us again ... 

 SALAMA:  Right. 

 TUCKER:  ... and the stock goes up. 

 SALAMA:  It`s coming back on those ... 

 TUCKER:  Getting a lot of institutional support. 

 SALAMA:  That`s right.  That`s right. 

 TUCKER:  In other words, Wall Street`s got a big stake in this one. 

 SALAMA:  Now, moving right along to Walt Disney, Walt Disney giving its consumer product unit a nice makeover.  Disney unveiling the first creative overhaul planned for 600 retail stores today. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah.  The 13-year-old franchises will be updated with, of course, Internet and media facts, while squeezing more floor space, more merchandise.  Disney stores will also move away from their famous character-based items to more adult-oriented merchandise. 

 SALAMA:   What is that? 

 TUCKER:  I don`t know.  Still to come, our stocks editor, Greg Clarkin, has a look at yet some other morning movers.  Greg. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  And, Bill and Sasha, we are watching another company in the telecom equipment business out with a profitwarning this morning.  That stock moving sharply lower.  And also, a small deal on the pharmaceutical business.  I tell you about it when we come back. 

 COMMERCIAL 

 TUCKER:  There you go, a live shot of the New York Stock Exchange where we do have stocks still higher, up by some 72 points at the moment.  The Nasdaq trading lower.  Financials are not adding to the performance of anything today.  Citi and J.P. Morgan, of course, members of the Dow. You can see that they`re hurting the action in the market for the Dow, at least today. 

 SALAMA:  And the man who keeps his eye on everything moving in the markets is Greg Clarkin.  He rejoins us now.  Hi there. 

 CLARKIN:  There`s a lot of moving parts to watch, Sasha. 

 SALAMA:  A lot. 

 CLARKIN:  As you recall yesterday, we were talking about a company called DSET.  These guys were folks that provide services and products to the telecommunications business, specifically what is known as the CLEC market, and those are Competitive Local Exchange Carriers, basically small phone companies. 

 Well, today another company in that same business out with a profitwarning.  It is called Carrier Access. And this company is saying that they will earn below the 32 cents a share in earnings that they were expected to post in the third quarter.  Instead, they`ll be somewhere around 15 to 18 cents a share.  And much the same reasons that we saw out of DSET yesterday.  This company also saying that companies in the CLEC business, the CLEC companies themselves, basically put off orders. And the bottom line was the orders did not materialize as they anticipated, so their numbers are not going to materialize as anticipated.  Now, analysts this morning saying that they sense this will take several quarters to correct. But the company`s CEO says that it is an isolated setback.  So, that stock taking a bit of a beating this morning. 

 And I also wanted to tell you about a Canadian company in the pharmaceutical business. It`s a company called Biovail Company.  And this morning they took a big step towards becoming a full-fledged pharmaceutical company in a $212 million deal.  They bought a drug marketer called DJ Pharma. Now, what this will allow them to do basically is have a North American presence in the area of branded drugs, and that will allow them to go out and sign bigger distribution deals in their pharmaceutical business. So, this company stock this morning was getting a nice pop on that news. 

 And analysts say this is a big step for this step. And, by the way, they do say that this deal will add to their earnings immediately through the year 2000 and then beyond. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah.  And that deal just points out the really thicker ways of Wall Street.  Biovail yesterday was a big loser. 

 CLARKIN:  Exactly. If I recall, Bill, I just was reading some of the analyst comments from yesterday questioning their growth prospects.  So, today, obviously, they had this deal in the works.  They announced this this morning and the stock turns right around. 

 TUCKER:  Pretty amazing, Greg.  Thanks. 

 CLARKIN:  Sure. 

 TUCKER:  Greg Clarkin. 

 SALAMA:  Thanks, Greg. 

 TUCKER:  Well, coming up next, Secretary of State Madeline Albright takes the helm of a diplomatic effort to bring peace back to the Middle East. 

 SALAMA:  Susan Lisovicz has all the details on that and the other latest world headlines.  That`s when IN THE MONEY comes back. 

 COMMERCIAL 

 TUCKER:  All right, time now for a quick check on world and national headlines, including more on the latest rounds of Middle East peace talks. 

 TUCKER:  And here is Susan Lisovicz with the latest.  Hi. 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning, Sasha and Bill. Secretary of State Madeline Albright is urging the Israelis and Palestinians to bring peace to the Middle East.  Albright met with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat separately in Paris today.  Both sides are blaming the other for recent outbreaks of violence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which have killed nearly 60 people.  Egyptian President Hasni Mubarak plans to hold talk with Barak and Arafat tomorrow. 

 Yugoslavia`s government is reportedly cracking down on the Opposition`s efforts to oust President Slobodan Milosevic.  Serbian police apparently broke up a massive strike at a major coalmine today, hoping to restart production.  Meanwhile, the Opposition`s campaign of civil disobedience entered its third day.  More rallies took place in the capital city of Belgrade today.  The Opposition also made formal charges of boat rigging, hoping to derail a runoff election on Sunday. 

 Back now in the U.S., officials are telling residents of south Florida to stay home after a massive storm dumped more than a foot of rain there yesterday.  The torrential downpour turned streets into rivers, flooded homes and left thousands of residents without power.  The water rose so high near canals in Opelika that catfish were carried in some first floor apartments.  Classes for the more than 350,000 kids were canceled today in Miami Dade County.  The county`s mayor has declared a state of emergency there. 

 The top two candidates are back on the presidential campaign trail, fresh from their first debate in Boston.  Texas Governor George W.  Bush is making stops in Pennsylvania and Ohio today.  Vice President Al Gore will also stop in Ohio.  Last night, the two presidential hopefuls sparred over issues such as abortion, social security, healthcare and tax cuts. 

 AL GORE, VICE PRESIDENT:  "For every new dollar that I propose for spending on healthcare, Governor Bush spends $3 for a tax cut for the wealthiest one percent.  Now, for every dollar that I propose to spend on education, he spends $5 on a tax cut for the wealthiest one percent.  Those are very clear differences." 

 GEORGE W. BUSH, GOVERNOR, TEXAS:  "The man`s practicing fuzzy math again. There`s differences.  Under Vice President Gore`s plan, he`s going to grow the federal government in the largest increase since Lyndon Baines Johnson in 1965.  And we`re talking about a massive government, folks." 

 LISOVICZ:  The two vice presidential candidates, Senator Joe Lieberman and Dick Cheney, will have their chance to face off tomorrow night. 

 And those are the latest headlines at this hour.  Sasha and Bill, back to you with one question for you, Bill.  Did you watch the debate or did you watch the Yankees? 

 TUCKER:  I stayed up past the ... 

 SALAMA:  So did I. 

 TUCKER:  ... usual bedtime ... 

 SALAMA:  Of course. 

 TUCKER:   ... to watch the debates.  I did, however, surf by the Yankees. And I do want you to know that they were ahead ... 

 LISOVICZ:  I know.  Believe me, I know. 

 TUCKER:  ... two to nothing when I surfed by on my way. 

 SALAMA:  That`s a tough choice. 

 TUCKER:  I was shocked to see the ... 

 LISOVICZ:  A disappointing outcome. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah, exactly.  All right, Susan. 

 SALAMA:  Thanks very much. 

 TUCKER:  Thank you. 

 LISOVICZ:  Sure. 

 TUCKER:  Well, as Susan just told us, the Democratic and Republican presidential candidates did debate for the first time last night. 

 SALAMA:  What impact would their proposals have on the U.S. economy and on our taxes?  Our own Bill Dorman joins us now to discuss the debate and these issues.  So does Alexis Simmindinger, the White House correspondent for "National Journal Magazine".  She is in our Washington bureau. Welcome to both of you.  And, Alexis, let`s start out with you. Clearly, issues of the budget, social security and healthcare were prominent in last night`s debate.  It`s probably safe to say that both candidates were a bit fuzzy on their numbers.  Who do you think came out looking stronger with stronger command of the issues? 

 ALEX SIMMINDINGER, CORRESPONDENT, NATIONAL JOURNAL MAGAZINE:  Well, both candidates were spending a lot of time trying to talk about their vision of the role of government, and they used taxes and, of course, social policy as ways to articulate their different views.  The folks that I think talked after the debate, the real people who were out their being interviewed, seemed to think that the specifics that Al Gore gave answered some of their questions about what he would do if he were actually president.  And Bush, they were looking for a little bit more specifics, but they thought that he gave a good, sort of general overview of his view of sort of independent role, getting government off the backs of people and giving their money back to them in the form of tax cuts. 

 SALAMA:  Bill, I want to throw this one to you.  Did either one of these guys break any new ground?  Did we hear anything that we hadn`t heard before? 

 BILL DORMAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Not if you`ve been paying attention to the campaign.  But I think that`s precisely the point.  A lot of people have not.  They say traditionally in American politics the presidential campaigns start with Labor Day.  Maybe they came a bit late this year. But really, this was the first time for some people in such a broad forum to hear some specifics.  And really, I think that you saw, and you`re going to hear more about this in coming debates and also on the campaign trail, the debate is really, in economic terms at least, what to do with the surplus. And in very broad terms, you have the large tax cut of Governor Bush and you have the targeted tax cuts of Al Gore along with new government programs.  And I think that`s where a lot of the debate in terms of economic policy is going to be coming as we go forward with this. 

 SALAMA:  Would you say, Bill, that any of the proposals from either side, or especially inflation friendly, does one come out more inflation friendly than the other? 

 DORMAN:  Well, I think you`ve got to bear in mind two things.  One, beware of any economic projections that cover 10 years, and two, we`re dealing with surpluses that don`t really exist yet.  This is all projected. This is coming ahead.  This is what we expect to happen.  So, there`s a little bit of danger in this.  Also, bear in mind that whatever either candidate wants to do is going to have to get through Congress.  So, this election, even though, yes, it`s important in terms of leadership and who wins the White House, also you got to keep an eye on Congress because all tax bills by law start in the House.  So, the House becomes very important in terms of make up, and also the Senate.  So, the question is going to be do you have the same party that takes control of the White House and both houses of Congress or one or the other. 

 TUCKER:  Alexis, as Bill pointed out, that last night`s debates, in some ways, were really brought overviews, campaign statements, in effect, by both of the candidates.  Some of the issues that didn`t get discussed and didn`t come up have to do with small business and what the individual candidates might or might not do there.  Can you fill us in on where Bush and Gore differ?  Or do they have any kind of campaign plans for small businesses? 

 SIMMINDINGER:  I think one of the things that we would be looking for in the next couple of debates are a discussion of regulatory issues.  As you know, the vice president would probably talk about the success that he thinks the administration has had over the last 7 1/2 years, using federal regulations to either protect consumers or to support small businesses. He would talk about tax credits and incentives for small businesses to go into certain areas of the country.  I think Governor Bush, although he doesn`t have specific plans that I think detail directly to small businesses, would talk a lot about his idea that government should get out of the way of small businesses and, certainly, in terms of regulation, in terms of their taxes, to give them an opportunity to contribute to this prosperity more than he thinks that the Clinton-Gore Administration has been able to do. 

 SALAMA:  I personally got a kick out of when Governor Bush talked about he`d call up Alan Greenspan right away to talk about issues of inflation and that kind of thing.  You know. 

 SIMMINDINGER:  Well, there was a discussion that was very interesting. It was a question posed about what would your decision-making process be like in case there was a financial institutional sort of crisis. And, of course, Vice President Gore was able to hark back to the 1997 age in financial flu that we saw and, of course, the Mexican peso crisis and talk a little bit about that.  But Governor Bush talked right away about his 911 plan to call Alan Greenspan and to talk to Congress, try to develop a core group of advisors who would help him deal with that crisis.  And that was basically his general answer. 

 DORMAN:  You know, one other point, just in terms of an issue where there`s some agreement, although the details of how you do this is different -but in terms of political evolution, prescription drug benefit in Medicare. A year ago this was a huge debate on Capitol Hill, very much a split. Now, it looks both Gore and Bush favor them.  They`re very different in terms of how they get it done, but the prescription drug coverage in both plans. Interesting in terms of political evolution I note. 

 SALAMA:  Bill Dorman and Alexis Simmindinger in Washington.  Thanks very much for joining us to thrash all of this out. 

 SIMMINDINGER:   Thanks. 

 TUCKER:  And we will thrash now to at least two more times before we get to vote.  Still to come, the ballots are cast and it looks like last year`s number one seller, Pokemon, isn`t happy with the results. 

 SALAMA:  Take a look at this truck. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah. 

 SALAMA:  We`re going to explain why this may be driving parents mad this holiday season.   IN THE MONEY comes right back. 

 COMMERCIAL 

 TUCKER:  All right, goodbye Pokemon, hello Hercules.  You already kind of feel it in the air, don`t you?  Holiday season is almost here.  And here with it, of course, is a new season of toys.  Only a couple of months ago we showed you some of the candidates vying to capture the kids hearts and, of course, the parent pockets this coming season. 

 SALAMA:  And the results are in, and "Family Fun" magazine`s winner of the 2000 Toy of the Year award has just been announced.  The magazine`s toy editor, Bob Domini (ph), is here with the results.   Welcome back. And the winner is? 

 BOB DOMINI, EDITOR, FAMILY FUN MAGAZINE:  The winner is we have 23 of them altogether. 

 SALAMA:  Oh boy. 

 DOMINI:   That`s the great thing about "Family Fun`s" Toy of the Year Awards is we actually look at toys by appropriate age group ... 

 TUCKER:  Oh yeah? 

 DOMINI:  ... in the toy category.  So, the magazine really ends up having something sort of meaningful for kids regardless of age or what their preferences might be.  But we have a few of the winners here. 

 SALAMA:  OK. 

 TUCKER:  We do. 

 SALAMA:  One in the show with you. 

 TUCKER:  And this one`s surprising here. 

 DOMINI:  Isn`t this funny?  The great thing about - this is Golden Retriever, first of all, from Folk Mannis (ph) Puppets.  It`s a little bitty company.  It`s a very traditional toy.  It`s not just a stuffed animal.  He`s a puppet.  See? 

 TUCKER:  And the kids pick this? 

 DOMINI:  Kids love this.  We did 23,000 hours of kid testing at "Family Fun" around the country.  This had very stiff competition.  Very classic toy. 

 SALAMA:  Nothing high tech about it. 

 DOMINI:  Nothing.  No chips.  It doesn`t plug into anything. 

 SALAMA:  No ... 

 DOMINI:  You put it on your arm and you play with it. 

 SALAMA:  Just fur. 

 DOMINI:  Exactly. 

 TUCKER:  Now, the other you have here doesn`t surprise me because I have a 12 year old kid at my house, a guy, and he`s been a Lego maniac forever. 

 DOMINI:  Absolutely.  And the great thing about Lego is people say, "Well, it`s Lego.  It`s been around forever."  The company is brilliant at reinventing itself every year, coming up with new products.  This is the championship challenge.  It retails for about $50.  It`s good for your sort of 10 and 12 year old Lego nuts.  They actually have to build the entire soccer stadium.  It comes just in a box, all apart.  We`ve glued this one together. The cool thing is when you`re done you can actually play the game.  If I could only find the soccer ball. 

 SALAMA:  There`s your ball, right over there. 

 DOMINI:  Oh, is it?  Where is it? 

 TUCKER:  Yeah, there it is.  Right there, right by your left hand. 

 SALAMA:  Yeah. 

 DOMINI:  Oh, by my left hand.  Oh yeah, cool.  Well, you know, it`s just like kids at home.  What happens as soon as you buy a new soccer ball? 

 TUCKER:  You lose the ball. 

 DOMINI:  You lose it.  So, it`s not different here. 

 SALAMA:  All right. 

 DOMINI:  So, isn`t that kind of cool? 

 TUCKER:  That is cool. 

 SALAMA:  That is. 

 DOMINI:  Yeah.  A great application. Again, no technology here.  A very classic, traditional product.  Kids love it. 

 SALAMA:  Did one of their heads just fall off? 

 TUCKER:  It probably got unglued.  Well, soccer`s a rough game, Sasha. 

 DOMINI:  Soccer is a rough game. 

 TUCKER:  And people get hurt. 

 DOMINI:  We`ll just put that back in. 

 TUCKER:  Don`t worry about it.  This is normal. 

 SALAMA:  Right. 

 TUCKER:  However, that thing that we teased before the break, now, this is like a truck on testosterone or something. 

 DOMINI:  I`m scared to drive this thing, OK.  I got to tell you, I`ve got a truck and I`m scared to drive this truck.  This is Hercules F-150 from NICO (ph).  We say it`s for 10 to 12 year olds, but come on.  This is something that you`re going to buy your kid and then you`re going to take it out ... 

 TUCKER:  And drive it away. 

 DOMINI:  Exactly.  And you`ll be lucky if there`s any charge left in the battery on Christmas morning.  I`m going to turn him on and see what we have here.  He`s pretty aggressive.  Sometimes we can`t even kind of hold him down. 

 SALAMA:  How much does it cost? 

 DOMINI:  A hundred and ninety dollars.  And also, the battery pack is sort of a separate addition.  I think there must be some sort of other electronic thing going on in here ... 

 TUCKER:  Yeah. 

 DOMINI:  ... because I`m not even activating the controller.  Are you ready?  We`re going to give him a little drive and show you just how tough this truck is. 

 TUCKER:  Go for it. 

 SALAMA:  All right. 

 DOMINI:  All right. 

 SALAMA:  All right.  That is one tough truck. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Bob. 

 DOMINI:  Isn`t it though? 

 TUCKER:  That`s amazing. 

 DOMINI:  A lot of fun from NICO America for kids of all ages. 

 TUCKER:  Terrific. 

 DOMINI:  And we can`t get him to stop. 

 TUCKER:  You can`t turn him off.  There you go.  Bob, thanks.  Thanks for coming by. 

 DOMINI:  Thank you very much. 

 SALAMA:  Thanks very much. 

 And that does it for IN THE MONEY today.  Don`t forget to join us tomorrow with the analyst who made an early call on Intel`s woes. Remember that? 

 His comments often rock Wall Street.  Ashok Kumar from Piper Jaffray will join us to talk about the computer sector. 

 TUCKER:  That`s tomorrow in IN THE MONEY.  For more market coverage, stay tuned right here to CNNfn. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document ithm000020010807dwa40007u
?
 

 Dell Optimistic About 3rd Quarter Outlook 

667 words
4 October 2000
21:14
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 ROUND ROCK, Texas -(Dow Jones)- Dell Computer Corp. (DELL) said third quarter revenue is "trending" about 3% below its expectations, but the company is "very optimistic" about its earnings outlook for the third quarter and fiscal year. 

 In a press release Wednesday, the company said the third quarter revenue trend is toward a 7% sequential growth rate. In the second quarter ended July 28, Dell's revenue was $7.67 billion. 

 Dell said European demand has been weak and worldwide sales to small-business customers have been below the company's expectations. 

 A First Call/Thomson Financial survey of 24 analysts predicted third quarter earnings of 25 cents a share. 

 Although Dell "remains on track" to meet its third quarter earnings expectations, the company said fourth quarter earnings may be about 1 cent a share to 2 cents a share below the company's target. 

 Dell is "cautious" about its 30% revenue growth target, and said that if softness continues into the fourth quarter, full-year revenue could be $32 billion, up 27% from last year. 

 For the year ended Jan. 28, Dell earned $1.86 billion, or 68 cents a share, excluding charges, on sales of $25.26 billion. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000, net income was $436 million, or 16 cents a share, on revenue of $6.8 billion. 

 A First Call/Thomson Financial survey of 23 analysts yielded a fourth-quarter earnings estimate of 28 cents a share. A similiar survey of 24 analysts predicted Dell will earn 94 cents a share for the full year. 

 The company said profit margins remain firm, and have benefited from lower-than-expected component costs. 

 Dell said demand from its global, large corporate, enterprise, education and home-PC customers is "very strong," as is demand within the Asia-Pacific region and Japan. 

 The company said its plan to reduce prices across its product lines will likely have a greater effect in stimulating demand and revenue growth in the fourth quarter. 

 Dell noted that its revenue "will continue to expand at a multiple of the industry rate." 

 Before a trading halt, Dell's shares traded at $28.19 on Nasdaq, down 37.5 cents or 1.3%, on volume of about 56.6 million shares. Average volume is about 30 million shares. 

 The stock resumed trading at about 5:00 p.m., and in after-hours trading on Island ECN, Dell recently changed hands at about $25.375. 

 Dell Computer is holding its fall analyst meeting today and Thursday. 

 On Jan. 26, Dell warned that its fourth quarter net income would be below expectations, due to inconsistent semiconductor flow and a slower-than-expected rebound for corporate and institutional sales, and also warned that sales growth would be in the low-30% range, compared with 38% the previous year. 

 For the current fiscal year, Dell's first quarter net income of 19 cents a share beat consensus estimates of 18 cents a share, and second quarter earnings of 22 cents a share beat estimates by a penny. 

 When the company reported second quarter earnings on Aug. 10, it said it was on track to meet its 30% sales growth goal for the year. 

 Dell Computer's chairman Michael Dell recently said 30% revenue growth for this year was "very achievable," according to a report in the Oct. 2 edition of The Wall Street Journal. 

 Intel Corp. (INTC) warned on Sept. 21 that third quarter would be lower than expected, primarily due to weaker demand in Europe. 

 A profit warning last Thursday afternoon from Apple Computer Corp. (AAPL) caused Apple's stock to plunge almost 52% on Friday, and other technology stocks including Gateway Inc. (GTW), Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP), Lucent Technologies Inc. (LU) and Intel also fell on Friday. 

 As of 5:58 p.m EDT, Dell shares traded at $25.76 on Island ECN. 

 Company Web site http://www.dell.com

 -Josh Beckerman; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5400 

Document dj00000020010805dwa403r4w
?
 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,706 words
4 October 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 PAUL KANGAS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: Dell`s (DELL) stock takes a dive in after-hours trading, as the world`s number two computer maker warns about earnings. But it`s not the third quarter the company`s worried about. We`ll explain. Good evening. I`m Paul Kangas in Miami. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. On Wall Street: a day on the upside. The Dow and NASDAQ both gain about 65 points. Then: can it reach out and solve its own problems? AT&T (T) looks at its options; and we do, too. 

 GHARIB: Good evening, everyone. Another warning from a high-tech titan: Dell Computer told analysts at a big meeting in Texas today that its fourth-quarter per-share earnings could be one to two cents below estimates; but, it`s still on target with the third quarter. Warnings like this, and earlier from Intel (INTC), Apple (AAPL) and Priceline (PCLN) have slammed the NASDAQ. Is the worst over? Scott Gurvey takes a look. 

 SCOTT GURVEY, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: The tech-heavy NASDAQ turned positive today, but the 2 percent rally fell far short of erasing the damage of the last few days. Some of the tech sector`s biggest stars have been clobbered, as earnings warnings poured in. Computer hardware stocks have fallen amid concerns about the personal computer market. Computer software stocks have followed suit, as several companies warned of slower revenue growth than Wall Street had expected. Semiconductor stocks posted mixed results. Companies primarily making microprocessors have done poorly, while those producing specialized components used in communications and data transmission have done well. Analysts think the worst of the sell-off may be over. 

 BRIAN FINNERTY, NASDAQ TRADER, C.E. UNTERBERG, TOWBIN: I would think Friday would be - that`s probably going to be the last day that you`re going to see any more pre-announcements, or "confessions" as we call them; and I think that you`re very close to the end of this bad news. The market right now, the NASDAQ market, it`s trying to make a bottom in here. 

 GURVEY: Investors have been hoping that, for some time. Some individual portfolios have taken a real beating, and some Wall Streeters say, the fear typical of a market bottom is beginning to surface. The NASDAQ Composite is now down 13 percent for the year, and 30 percent below its all-time high, set back in March. 

 DAVE POWERS, SR. TECHNOLOGY ANALYST, EDWARD JONES: I think in order for technology to turn higher, two things need to happen. One, the companies that report third-quarter earnings in the next couple of weeks, have got to come out with good news - not only about the third quarter; but also about the fourth quarter. And secondly, it would help that if we could get some you know better factors driving the macro economic environment. If we could get oil prices easing and the Euro to strengthen, that would certainly help things as well. 

 GURVEY: That may be difficult to achieve, especially if we get more announcements like Dell Computer`s talking down expectations for the fourth quarter. Scott Gurvey, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York. 

 KANGAS: Stocks on Wall Street opened widely mixed today, with more earnings warnings in the tech sector sending the NASDAQ Index down another 42 points by 10:30 a.m. on top of yesterday`s sharp 113-point tumble; while the blue chips attracted renewed demand as the Dow Industrial Average rose 90 points an hour into the trading session. Low price-earnings multiples and optimism about steady earnings improvement continue to bolster the blue chips for the rest of the morning. But the tech stocks joined the upturn as bargain hunters moved in, following a 9 percent drop in the NASDAQ Index in just the three previous trading days. By 1:00 p.m. then, the Industrial Average moved to a 101-point gain, and the NASDAQ was up 28 1/2 points. The tech sector took the spotlight away from the blue chips in afternoon trading, and the Dow Industrial Average slowly faded a bit to close up 64.74 at 10,784.48. In today`s 137-point trading range, the Dow closed down 65 1/2 points from the best level of the session, and up 71 points from the low. The NASDAQ Composite managed a gain of 67.27 at 3523.10. In its 150-point trading range, the Composite Index settled only 9 1/2 points below its very best level of the day, and up 140 1/2 from the low. 

 Big board volume today moved above 1.1 billion shares. Nicely higher than yesterday. And up volume exceeded down volume by a rather slim margin, maybe about 45 million shares. 

 The Dow Transport Index up nearly 62 points. The airlines rallied on lower oil prices. 

 The Utility Index however under the brunt of profit-taking, down 11 1/4. 

 The Closing Tick practically neutral at +24. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 up 7.86. 

 Exactly a 4-point gain in the 100. 

 The MidCap 400 edged up .77. 

 And the Bridge Futures Price Index rose .58. 

 Just over a 1/2 point gain in the New York Stock Exchange Composite. 

 Value Line rising just over 2 points. 

 Little over 2 3/4-point run-up in the Russell2000 Small Cap Index. 

 And the Broadly-Based Wilshire 5000 up 87.18 points. 

 The bond market was still on the defensive today because of the Fed`s warnings yesterday that it was still on inflation alert. Many analysts were expecting a more neutral stance. The report that August new factory orders jumped a stronger-than-expected 2 percent was another negative, and the market also lacked safe-haven buying because of the nice rally in stocks, especially the NASDAQ. 

 Tax free and corporate issues closed down only 8s though, and the Treasury market mostly lower; but not big drops. 

 A 4/32 loss in the 5-year note. 

 10-year note down 9/32, with the yield up to 5.90 percent. 

 No change at all on the 30-year bond. 

 And the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index fell about 3 1/4 points. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Susie? 

 GHARIB: Paul, our guest tonight says that the stock market will continue to struggle in the months ahead. Joining me live now is Mike Holland, chairman of Holland & Company, his investment firm, here in New York City. Great to see you again. 

 MICHAEL HOLLAND, CHAIRMAN, HOLLAND & COMPANY: It`s really good to be here; thank you. 

 GHARIB: What`s going on with the market? We had this warning from Dell. We`ve heard from Apple, Intel. I mean, how much more of this are we going to have to get? 

 HOLLAND: I think we probably have some more going through the end of the year. What Dell said tonight after the close, Susie, was very important because Dell has been such an upbeat positive part of this market; ever since really the meltdown in 1998. What they indicated tonight was they have slow revenues. Europe is slow for them. OfficeMax (OMX) earlier in the day - a much smaller company, but yet another barometer of what`s going on in revenues in retail sales, slowing. The Federal Reserve`s six interest rate increases have had an effect, combined with the energy price increase - consumers are spending less in Europe than the U.S. and in Asia. 

 GHARIB: All right, so what`s the message here? I mean, how are investors supposed to interpret all of this? Is this good or bad? 

 HOLLAND: Well, it`s good. I`ll be Pollyanna here for a second and say that the Federal Reserve is out of the picture in terms of raising rates. I think their next move will be to decrease rates, and I hope it happens sooner rather than later. I think that we`ll continue to have growth around the world, but it`ll be at a more subdued pace. So the market is repricing assets a little bit, as a result of that. I think that most of the damage, for a lot of great companies, has already been done. 

 GHARIB: All right. So, when are we going to see a rally in the markets? 

 HOLLAND: I think between now and the end of the year, companies like - and I`m going to pick out three: Hewlett-Packard (HWP), Intel and Microsoft (MSFT). Three great companies that have been really bashed by this market. In the case of Microsoft, down by more than one-half. I think stocks like that, between now and year-end, trading at very reasonable multiples, will be substantially higher. But I think that a number of companies in this slowing growth environment will continue to be punished by the market. 

 GHARIB: Will continue to - 

 HOLLAND: To be punished, if they bring surprises. We`d look at stocks like AT&T and Lucent (LU) which have dramatically disappointed. They are companies that they`re going to have to prove to the market that they can do better in the future. 

 GHARIB: All right. So what is an investor to do? Let`s say you`re a long-term investor. 

 HOLLAND: Right. 

 GHARIB: You have some money. Should you put it to work in the market and buy some of these stocks that have been beaten down? Or should you wait? 

 HOLLAND: I would absolutely begin buying. Those three companies I mentioned, for example, three world-class franchises. You can buy companies, like that, that have been trading at very reasonable multiples. Intel, Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft, IBM (IBM). You can then buy, in addition to that, I think Treasury bonds are very interesting. 

 GHARIB: Short term? 

 HOLLAND: Short and intermediate, and even zero-coupon. You can - the government guarantees us four times our money on zero - for your children, when they`re going to go to college - four times your money. You put in a dollar, they are going to guarantee you four in 20 years - or, 25 years. So you can get over 6 percent in the shorter term. You can get four times your money in the longer term. 

 GHARIB: OK. We`re running out of a little time here. All right. Investors: looking at their stock portfolios; the elections coming up. When they go into the voting booth, how are they going to vote, do you think? What is the impact of all of the stock market sideways` movement going to have on the election? 

 HOLLAND: People generally avoid that question, and I`m not going to avoid it. If the NASDAQ is down dramatically, between now and November, I think it`s not good for the incumbent. I think that if the market stays flat here, I think it would be a little bit of a non-event. If the market`s up, it`s good for the incumbent. I think it`s very straightforward. The market is going to matter this time, more than it ever has before, because more than half the people who vote, own stocks. And that`s the first time in U.S. history. 

 GHARIB: All right. You talked about interest rates, real quickly. You said that it would be nice to see an interest rate cut. We got no indication of that from the Fed yesterday. 

 HOLLAND: All they have to do is stop looking at these reams of numbers they get, generated by bureaucrats. Look at what companies are telling them, like Dell, Intel, OfficeMax. Things are slowing down worldwide. They can`t raise prices. There`s no inflation. We have slowing growth. 

 GHARIB: All right. thank you so much. 

 HOLLAND: Thank you, Susie. 

 GHARIB: I love having you on the program. And we`ve been speaking with Mike Holland of Holland & Company. 

 KANGAS: A couple of big mergers are in the news tonight and the biggest is in banking. Milwaukee based Firstar (FSR) is buying regional rival U.S. Bancorp (USB) for $21 billion in stock. Combined, the banks would have more than $160 billion in assets and 2,200 branches in the west and Midwest. Interestingly, this deal is also a family affair. Firstar is run by Jerry Grundhofer. And his older brother Jack runs U.S. Bancorp. 

 There`s also a billion dollar deal in the disk drive market. Maxtor (MXTR) is buying Quantum Corp.`s Hard Disk Drive (HDD) unit for just over $1 billion in stock. The combination creates one of the world`s largest disk drive makers, with about $6 billion in annual revenues. 

 AT&T`s (T) stock rose $0.56 to $29.69 today. But the stock is still in the dumps, about half of what it was earlier this year. It`s considering ways to change that. But as Stephanie Woods reports, AT&T has little room to maneuver. 

 STEPHANIE WOODS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: AT&T is in a tough spot. Startups and established companies alike are eating away at its market share. At the same time investors are growing impatient for its stock to rebound. 

 DWIGHT ALLEN, CONSULTANT, DELOITTE & TOUCHE RESEARCH: They are constantly being told by Wall Street that it`s not happening fast enough and the prospects aren`t sufficiently good to make it worthwhile anyhow. 

 WOODS: Analyst Rob Gensler calls it the earnings trap. 

 ROB GENSLER, TELECOM ANALYST, T. ROWE PRICE: Your shareholders want earnings, but the real reality for strategic imperative is you need to cannibalize your own businesses. 

 WOODS: AT&T has been reluctant to do that, instead keeping its price structure intact and its margins the largest in the industry. But that has left the company vulnerable to lower cost rivals. To boost its prospects, AT&T is reportedly considering spinning off its consumer long distance business. It is also considering buying wireless company Nextel (NXTL) and strengthening its ties with British Telecom (BTY). 

 GENSLER: And the board has the dilemma of do they do what could be a near term fix, i.e. breaking the company up and doing a sum of the parts that some would argue could get the stock into the low 40`s. But then again if you did that, are you really helping any of those businesses strategically? I would argue you`re not, you`re hurting them. 

 WOODS: And even if AT&T does go for a quick fix, many analysts don`t expect it will change the company`s fortunes overnight. 

 MEL MARTEN, TELECOM ANALYST, EDWARD JONES: You have to remember that this is a very big company and there is no magic bullet for AT&T here that`s going to turn the company around in the next three months. 

 WOODS: AT&T wouldn`t comment for this story. Analysts say all the speculation around the company isn`t doing much to boost investor confidence and may even make it harder for management to make the tough choices. Stephanie Woods, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 KANGAS: It was one of those rare days of late when both the blue chip Dow and the NASDAQ markets closed nicely on the up side, the Industrial Average up 64 3/4 points. But the broader market actually lower by a 15 to 13 margin; 58 new yearly highs, 83 new lows. 

 Lucent Technologies (LU) on 18.1 million shares topped the active list, moving up $2.88. 

 EMC (EMC) fell $1.25. It traded as low as $.86. The only news I saw, the chairman has filed to sell 2.1 million EMC shares. 

 Firstar (FSR) down $2.25. You just heard the story, going to be acquiring U.S. Bancorp, and that stock rose $1.81 to $25. That deal is worth a little over $25 in Firstar stock. 

 Nortel Networks (NT) was up $1.44. Of course yesterday First Boston repeated a "strong buy." 

 Xerox (XRX) falling to another low, down $0.25 and fifth in volume. 

 Citigroup (C) fell $2. 

 Guidant (GDT), a major loss of $11.81. The company predicting lower than expected third quarter revenues of $600 million. But the company did today get FDA marketing approval for its new coronary stent system. Customers apparently had been holding off buying the old stent system to await the approval of the new and now that`s happened. 

 AT & T (T) up $0.56. May be spinning off that long distance business. 

 Computer Associates (CA) up $3.56. The company sees second quarter earnings coming in at $0.50 to $0.54, not as bad as generally expected, although below the Street consensus of $0.56 and First Boston today did maintain a "buy" rating so the stock ended in the plus column. 

 Pfizer (PFE) was down $1.44, 10th in volume. 

 Agilent Technologies (A) rising $4.50. The company announced a major advancement in its chip technology. 

 Delta Air (DAL) rising $2.06. Of course, oil in New York dropped over $0.65 a barrel. 

 And then Fox Entertainment Group (FOX) dropping $1 after Morgan Stanley Brokerage downgraded it from "strong buy" to just "outperform." 

 Intimate Brands (IBI) up $2 a share. September same store sales rose a respectable 10 percent. 

 Micron Technology (MU) up $3.88. Now, after the close, the company did report fourth quarter earnings of $1.20 a share. That`s way up from the Street estimate of only $0.96. And in after hours trading, Micron stock was just above $47 a share. 

 Tribune Company (TRB) down $4.56. Morgan Stanley downgraded it from "outperform" to just "neutral." 

 Quantum Hard Disk Drive Group (HDD), you just heard the story. It`s going to be acquired, the disk drive unit, by Maxtor for about 1 1/2 shares of Maxtor. It works out to about $14 a share in value. 

 China Mobile HK Limited (CHL) up $5.06. Vodafone (VOD) says it`s going to invest $2.5 billion in this company. They are in an alliance. 

 Arrow Electronics (ARW) had a good day, up $4.13. The company sees third quarter earnings exceeding the second quarter`s $0.85 a share and it`ll exceed it by at least 15 percent so a nice move there. 

 Saga Systems (AGS) the big percentage loser of the day, down $2.56. The company sees lower than expected third quarter earnings of only $0.02 to $0.04. The company blames the fact that several deals failed to close before the end of the quarter. 

 Minerals Technologies (MTX) down $8.19. The company sees lower than expected third quarter earnings of $0.72 a share. The Street was looking for $0.82. 

 And Martin Marietta Materials (MLM) down $2.77. This company says this year`s earnings will be below last year`s $2.68 a share. 

 NASDAQ trading, a gain of just about 67 1/4 points. Volume over 2.1 billion shares, very active day. About 19 stocks up for every 21 down. 

 Oracle (ORCL) topped the active list. It was down $1.38 on the close, but it hit a low of 60 1/2 in the morning so it did make a very impressive comeback. 

 Sun Microsystems (SUNW) up $3.08. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) fell $1.13. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) rising $2.31. 

 Intel (INTC) was up $1.69, fifth in NASDAQ dollar volume. 

 Juniper Networks (JNPR) up over $6.50. 

 A similar gain in JDS Uniphase (JDSU). 

 Ariba (ARBA) snapping back sharply, up $17.28. 

 SDL (SDLI) had a good day, too, up $20. 

 And then Dell Computer (DELL) down $0.38 on the regular close. But in after hours trading it was just below $25 a share following that post-market fourth quarter earnings warning. 

 Oplink Communications (OPLK) up $15.63. Went public today, manufacturer of fiber optic parts, 13.7 million shares offered at $18, opened at $29, the high of the day $36. 

 Pac-West Telecommunications (PACW) up $3.02. After the close today, the stock was added to the Standard & Poor`s Small Cap 600 Index, index fund buyers. 

 And Nutri/Systems (THIN) losing about 53 1/2 percent of its value today. Four million privately placed shares have now become available for sale as of today. So an over hanging market there. 

 The American Exchange Index down just over 3 points. 

 Alteon (ATL) was up $1.44. Privately, the company privately placed 2.8 million of its shares, for a total of $6.2 million. The company used the money to finance its cardiovascular drug research. 

 And Inverness Medical Technologies (IMA) losing $1.50 on news it`s going to acquire Integ Incorporated (NTEG) for about $3 a share in stock. 

 And finally, the Index Shares for the first time in quite a while were all in the plus column today, especially the NASDAQ Qs (QQQ). 

 KANGAS: Friday`s upcoming September employment report will no doubt receive some close scrutiny for signs of a slowing economy after the Federal Reserve voted yesterday to keep interest rates unchanged again. 

 Joining me now to look into what we might expect is Mark Serlin, economist with BridgeNews in Washington. Welcome back, Mark. 

 MARK SERLIN, ECONOMIST, BRIDGENEWS: Hi, Paul. 

 KANGAS: What should we be looking for in this jobs report? 

 SERLIN: Well, right off the bat we know that more census workers are going to be coming off government payrolls. So that means attention should immediately focus on private. At the same time, we know there is about 75,000 strikers coming back. So the thing to look at is private payrolls, subtracting out 75,000. 

 But the most important part of the report, I think, is going to be the work week. We`ve seen a very sharp contraction in the work week lately. 

 KANGAS: Yes, you predicted that on your last visit with me. Yeah. 

 SERLIN: Yeah, and it has been trending lower and if it continues to do so, it`s going to be of major concern. As the data stand right now, it looks like the quarterly growth rate in total hours worked for the third quarter could actually be negative. That`s a major sign that economic activity is slowing. 

 KANGAS: But yesterday the Fed warned the labor market is tight, isn`t that right? 

 SERLIN: It did and the labor marked is tight in the sense that the unemployment rate is still very low. But there is other measures of labor market tightness, the labor force participation rate, the employment to population ratio. Both of those measures have come way off their cycle highs. 

 KANGAS: OK. 

 SERLIN: That suggests that while the labor market is tight, it`s not as tight as it was before. 

 KANGAS: Now, I know you look at something called the diffusion indices. What are they and why should we look at those? 

 SERLIN: It`s a measure that shows how broad based any gains are. If payrolls are up a lot but the increase in payrolls is concentrated in one industry, it`s of less significance than if payrolls are up a lot and the gains are broad based. 

 KANGAS: OK. 

 SERLIN: So the diffusion index will show how broad based any payroll job gains are. 

 KANGAS: Mark, how realistic is the Fed`s warning yesterday that another rate hike just might be necessary because of the tight labor market and so forth? 

 SERLIN: It`s a legitimate concern. Oil prices are going up. The main thing is will the increase in energy prices prompt an increase in inflation expectations? If there is evidence to show that that is becoming the case, then the Fed will continue to tighten. But you have to remember, the Fed is in, you know, the central bank business and their job is to be vigilant on inflation. So you would expect them to come out with comments like that. 

 KANGAS: All right. Interesting, Mark. Thanks very much. We appreciate your thoughts. 

 SERLIN: Thank you. 

 KANGAS: My guest, Mark Serlin, economist with BridgeNews. 

 GHARIB: Tomorrow, he runs the high profile Barksdale Group, investing in high tech startups. We sit down with Jim Barksdale. 

 A warning from OfficeMax today. It says it`ll post a loss in the third quarter, $0.10 a share. Estimates were for a profit of $0.12. OfficeMax blames the loss on the tough retail environment and says it`ll also have a weak fourth quarter. The stock fell $0.44 or 14 percent to $2.75. 

 KANGAS: Two striking actors` unions battling the advertising industry are taking aim at Procter & Gamble (PG), one of the nation`s largest advertisers. The unions say a boycott of the consumer products giant could come as early as this week. The unions represent 135,000 commercial actors and have singled out P&G because of its use of non-union talent during the 23 week strike. Procter & Gamble`s shares today were up $1.44 to close at $70.25. 

 GHARIB: In the money file tonight, when it comes to online investing, does crime pay? Tonight`s commentator suggests that it might. Here`s Charles Jaffe, Personal Finance Columnist for the "Boston Globe." 

 CHARLES JAFFE, PERSONAL FINANCE COLUMNIST, "BOSTON GLOBE": A few weeks ago the Securities and Exchange Commission declared open season on online investors. It happened when the nation`s main regulatory agency settled a fraud case against a 15-year-old New Jersey boy who used his computer to play pump and dump. The kid hyped stocks with bogus data posted under a flurry of screen names then captured quick profits by selling to the suckers he helped create. 

 The SEC made the kid pay back $270,000 in profits from trades made after he disseminated false information. The problem is that the agency didn`t pursue all of the kid`s suspect trades. As a result, the boy kept more money than he gave back, leaving the public with the message that crime pays. Even if the SEC catches you in the act, there is a good chance the agency will cut a deal that lets you keep a tidy profit. That the kid not only profited, but is being treated by some people as a precocious enterprising new economy hero shows that stock fraud is considered a victimless crime. It`s not. 

 The victims are ordinary investors who fail to live by buyer beware, letting their guard down and trading on impulse or taking advice that they have not checked out completely. Everyone knows better than to make those mistakes yet real people keep getting suckered. With the SEC`s message that crime pays you can expect these kinds of frauds to get worse. That means you are a target. Protect yourself because no one else out there can do it as well as you. I`m Charles A. Jaffe. 

 KANGAS: Recapping today`s market action, the Dow gained 64 points and the NASDAQ Index closed up 67 points. 

 And please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: NBR. 

 GHARIB: And that`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Wednesday, October 4th. I`m Susie Gharib. Good night, everyone. Good night to you, Paul. 

 KANGAS: Good night, Susie. I`m Paul Kangas, wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dwa40005i
?
 Business 
 MONEYLINE; CNNfn 

 Stuart Varney, Bruce Francis, Amanda Lang, Terry Keenan, Susan Lisovicz, Wolf Blitzer, Bill Dorman, John Metaxas, Steve Young, Peter Viles, Allan Chernoff 
8,622 words
4 October 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR: Tonight on MONEYLINE, the Nasdaq stages a much-needed bounce-back, but getting there was not pretty: inside a wild session on Wall Street. 

 And tomorrow might be just as rocky: Dell Computer (URL: http://www.dell.com/) joins a sorry list of tech bellwethers delivering an after-the-bell warning. 

 A corporate drama playing out in the headlines: Is AT&T (URL: http://www.att.com/) about to embark on a drastic restructuring? Who is floating the options in the press and why? 

 And she is perhaps the best-known face in the art auction world. Now MONEYLINE has learned that Dede Brooks and Sotheby`s (URL: http://www.sothebys.com/) will plead guilty, possibly as early as tomorrow, to breaking antitrust law. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is MONEYLINE. Reporting tonight from New York, Stuart Varney. 

 Good evening, everyone, and welcome to MONEYLINE. Willow is off tonight. 

 Our top story: direct from Austin, Texas, an after-the-bell warning from Dell. For the third week in a row, a high-tech giant related to the PC business has stunned Wall Street by warning that either sales or profits would disappoint. First Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) , then Apple Computer (URL: http://www.apple.com/) . Tonight, Dell, one of 1990`s hottest stocks. 

 Dell warned that quarterly sales will come in weaker than expected. Its stock, already at a 52-week low during the regular session, is down 2 1/2 points at 25 11/16 in after-hours trading. 

 It`s quite a late-day letdown for the markets, which enjoyed a tech rebound after the three straight sessions of brutal losses. But it wasn`t all smooth sailing. The Nasdaq was down 73 points at its low, then up more than 76 at its high before settling with a gain of 67. That`s 3,523. 

 The volume again was heavy, more than 2 billion shares traded today. 

 Less drama on the Dow, which ended up more than 64 points. Gains in Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com) , Intel, IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) accounted for more than half of that rally. The S&P gained nearly eight points, and it close at 1,434. Just one look at a handful of big-name stocks shows just how hairy today`s session really was: Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) , Sun Microsystems (URL: http://www.sun.com/) , JDS Uniphase (URL: http://www.jdsunph.com/) and IBM all moved in a huge range, especially Sun, which traded in a near $11 range. And that`s just a sample. 

 We begin our coverage tonight with Bruce Francis with more on Dell`s disappointment and this market`s rocky ride -- Bruce. 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Stuart, this one didn`t exactly come out of nowhere, but it`s nevertheless troubling to some investors. Two tech giants were the bookends for today`s session. For Oracle, the word was that things were OK despite an unsettling analyst report at the outset. But for Dell, which had recently told investors that the current quarter was on track, a revision provided a nasty surprise. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS (voice-over): Weak PC sales claim another victim. After the bell, Dell Computer said that Dell`s European demand has been weak and growth in sales to worldwide small-business customers has been somewhat short. 

 The PC maker said that that will cause the current quarter`s revenue to come in about 3 percent short of expectation. Worse yet, Dell said that if the weakness persists, revenues for the year might grow only 27 percent, enviable for many companies, but short of Dell`s goal of 30 percent. That kicked a tech sector that had been down eight of the last 10 days. 

 All the top Dell analysts are in Austin, Texas for a previously scheduled meeting with Dell. Word of the revenue shortfall came as a surprise. 

 WALTER WINNITZKI, CHASE H&Q: On one hand, Dell`s announcement is A mild surprise, because it does suggest a lower revenue target. But given the industry climate and some preannouncements by other companies, I think the market was already telling us that something like this was a possibility. 

 FRANCIS: Dell`s warning flew in the face of a broad-based relief rally in tech stocks. Chip and chip equipment makers had some of the biggest gains, with Intel, PMC-Sierra (URL: http://www.pmc-sierra.com/) , Applied Materials (URL: http://www.appliedmaterials.com/) and KLA-Tencor (URL: http://www.tencor.com/) all rebounding sharply. Also rebounding from its lows, Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) : the database software maker initially sold off sharply on heavy volume after Robertson Stephens said the stock was overpriced. 

 ERIC UPIN, ROBERTSON STEPHENS: Oracle trades at a very rich multiple no matter how you slice and dice it, especially for a company on the top line that`s growing 16, 18 percent year over year. 

 FRANCIS: But Oracle came to the defense of its beleaguered stock, which at its low is off 23 percent in two days. The company says there is no change in its outlook. 

 Tech investors remain edgy, though, and a warning from Dell just worsened the mood that already prevailed. 

 MARK DONOHOE, U.S. BANCORP PIPER JAFFRAY: You really haven`t found a bottom yet. Trying to buy a tech stocks lately has been, you know, trying to grab a falling knife, and that just never works. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS: Analysts that follow Dell have been saying that what the company needs is consistency, a steady drumbeat of rock-solid quarters with no nail biting. That has to happen before Dell`s stock can recover, they say. 

 Well, that goal edged a little further out of reach today, with the stock trading down 25/26 after hours. It`s a big loss for investors who bought it at the peak. 

 VARNEY: Oh, yes, it is. Bruce Francis, thanks very much. 

 Now, as we mentioned, the Nasdaq today bounced back after three straight sessions of big losses. But the tech downturn goes back further than that. Up until today, the Nasdaq had retreated in eight out of nine sessions. Even counting today`s gains, the index is still down 8 percent in the last 10 sessions, and many individual stocks continue to struggle. All five of these tech names hit 52-week lows yesterday: all but two of them, Apple and CMGI (URL: http://www.cmgi.com/) , hit new lows today, including Dell, which, as we said, is slumping further in late trading. 

 And Dell wasn`t the only tech giant out with late news today. Micron Technology (URL: http://www.micron.com/) came out with profits that beat expectations. It`s a memory chip-maker and it earned a $1.16 a share in the fiscal fourth quarter, excluding a one-time gain. And that was 20 cents better than the consensus, though some were predicting profits as high a $1.15 share. Sales more than doubled to $2.6 billion. 

 Let`s go right to Amanda Lang for a look at how Micron and Dell are trading in after-hours action. 

 Amanda, what are the numbers now? 

 AMANDA LANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Stuart, a look at the way that Micron is trading after the bell will give you an indication of how the results are a little bit confusing. A 6:00 p.m. Instinet close on Micron, 47 1/8 -- that was up 3/16 -- on a million shares traded. I do have a more recent trading close that is down. It will be difficult to know where this is going to end up. 

 The results, as you say, blew past expectations, but Micron sells products for the PC market and its quarter ended in August. We know from recent warnings for many companies that September was a problem month, and Micron indicated on its call that it may be seeing some inventory  returns from some customers. That has set some confusion among investors having a look at PC stocks. There are certainly continued fears of a slowdown in that business. 

 Dell, as you mentioned, off 2 1/2 in after-hours trading. It`s trading at 25 11/16: this on fears that it`s own revenue is slowing. That has sent other PC stocks down as well. 

 Let`s look at a few of them: Gateway (URL: http://www.gateway.com/) is down 90 cents after the bell, It`s at $50 on volume of 15,000 shares. Compaq Computer (URL: http://www.compaq.com/) taking its worst beating, down $1.34. And Intel heavily traded, 1.4 million shares traded, but only a half lost after the bell. 

 Back to you, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, Amanda Lang, thanks very much. 

 The twists and turns at the Nasdaq commanded most of the attention today, but there was plenty of action at the Big Board as well. And Terry Keenan is live at the New York Stock Exchange with all the big movers there. 

 Terry, what do you have? 

 TERRY KEENAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Stuart, until that warning from Dell, people here were pretty pleased with the market performance today and the tech-led turnaround. But given the fact that IBM among others face same  of the same revenue issues as Dell, all bets are off for tomorrow. 

 In fact, Big Blue was the real standout here today as rumors abated that it would see even more sales fallout from the weak euro. We already know that several analysts have trimmed IBM`s revenue growth for the quarter citing the impact of the euro. 

 Well, the stock today traded as low as 108 before a stunning turnaround. As you can see, finishing there at 114. Hewlett-Packard following suit. 

 Also impressive here today, the economically sensitive stocks: That`s something we`ve been seeing for the last couple of sessions. Today, International Paper (URL: http://www.internationalpaper.com/) led the way, moving up 1 7/8. 

 But drug stocks, though, and the financials were weak: Johnson & Johnson (URL: http://www.jnj.com/) trading down around 90, off 2 3/16, while J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) was off 3 1/4. 

 As for the market breadth, it was negative, as you can see, five to four in favor of decliners, while the volume here continues to be moderately heavy: Almost 1.2 billion shares changed hands. 

 EMC (URL: http://www.emc.com/) leading the volume leaders with an impressive comeback. You see the red arrow there, but that stock traded as low as 85 this morning. The comeback to 92 coming on very impressive volume. 

 And America Online (URL: http://www.aol.com/) also attracting some buying interest, up $3.41,, while Guidant  (URL: http://www.guidant.com/) was the disaster du jour here. The medical equipment company warning of a revenue shortfall. 

 Lucent (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) having a strong session while Citigroup (URL: http://www.citi.com/) was way down in a weak financial sector, off $2. 

 And finally, our story stock this evening: shares of The Gap (URL: http://www.gap.com/) falling three-quarters in fairly light after-hours trading. The retailer announcing after the bell that September same-store sales were down 8 percent: this on top of some big declines that we saw in the month of August. As you can see, the stock already telegraphing this. It is down 57 percent year to date, and that is quite a markdown -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Let me turn this one around for a second. Remember Computer Associates (URL: http://www.cai.com) last yesterday warned and then today the stock goes up $2 to $3 a share. Haven`t seen that for a long time, have we? 

 KEENAN: No, we haven`t, but you know, you can look at the chart of Dell, you can look at the chart of The Gap. The market has already factored in problems with some of these companies, and that`s why we`re not seeing as a severe a sell-off as we did when we got the real bombshell from Intel. 

 VARNEY: Good point. Terry Keenan at the Big Board, thanks. 

 Now, still to come on MONEYLINE, from high society to high crimes, Sotheby`s takes a humbling fall. We`ll look at who could plead guilty in the criminal case as early as tomorrow. And later, a special report on a new focus of the nation`s leading brokerages: why companies like Charles Schwab are aggressively courting Asian-Americans. All of that`s coming up on MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Breaking news tonight from the art world: MONEYLINE has learned that Sotheby`s and its former chief executive, Dede Brooks, will plead  guilty to a violation of U.S. antitrust law, possibly as soon as tomorrow. This news comes less than a month after Sotheby`s and its rival Christie`s agreed to a $512 million civil settlement on price fixing. The criminal case will add more penalties and possibly prison time. 

 Susan Lisovicz has been following the story; she joins us now with more on this -- Susan. 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hello, Stuart. Christie`s has what is 

 called "conditional amnesty" in the criminal probe because of its early cooperation with authorities. That deal was announced in January and it tightened the screws around Sotheby`s, the American multimillionaire who bought the British company in 1983, and the first woman to ever become its chief executive. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Sold for $165,000. 

 LISOVICZ (voice-over): Diana Brooks` exit from art world is even more sensational than her entry seven years ago. The first woman to head 256-year-old Sotheby`s, the world`s largest auction house, she was instrumental in securing one of its most successful collections: the $35-million estate sale of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. 

 Now Dede, as she is known in the art world, and the firm she led will plead guilty to violating U.S. antitrust law by fixings prices with their chief rival, Christie`s. Sotheby`s, earlier this year, arranged for a $300-million line of credit to handle penalties in the civil and criminal case. But art experts say the financial impact is still huge. 

 ANDREW DECKER, EPPRAISALS.COM: It`s an enormous hit. They`ve got 100 million from the civil settlement; and for a company that has net income of, you know, $20 to $30 million a year, that`s huge. 

 LISOVICZ: Diana Brooks is cooperating with federal authorities. That cooperation involves information about the man who hired her, Sotheby`s former chairman, multi-millionaire shopping mall developer Alfred Taubman. 

 PETER SULLIVAN, GIBSON, DUNN & CRUTCHER: The government, when it settles cases, ordinarily seeks jail time for officers and directors and high executives who are implicated in the conspiracy. 

 I know that is something the government tries to get and will try to get it in this case, no doubt. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 LISOVICZ: Since Christie`s and now Sotheby`s and Diana Brooks have struck deals with the government, Taubman, who is 75, is the last man standing in the case. And that person is typically the most vulnerable to a harsh penalty -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, Susan Lisovicz, thank you. 

 Let`s do a brief check on Sotheby`s trading action today. Shares ended up just over 1/2 point. It has been a rough year for the stock, but it is up more than 20 percent just in the last month. BID is the  symbol for Sotheby`s. 

 Tonight, another deal in the rapidly consolidating financial industry: Firstar (URL: http://www.firstar.com/) announced plans to buy its rival U.S. Bancorp (URL: http://www.usbank.com/) . Analysts call the $21 billion deal a good geographic fit. It also gives Firstar a foot in the profitable business of investment banking, with U.S. Bancorp`s Piper Jaffray. 

 And it is a family reunion of sorts: the chief executives of the two banks are brothers. For years, Jack and Jerry Grundhofer have been more competitive than cooperative, swallowing up regional banks at a torrid pace. But with today`s deal, sibling rivalry may be taking a back seat. The two brothers will run the combined company, which is going  to be called U.S. Bancorp, by the way. Jack Grundhofer will be the chairman until his planned retirement in 2002. His younger brother, Jerry Grundhofer, will be president and CEO. 

 Now, check reaction to today`s announcement: Firstar down 2 1/4, U.S. Bancorp climbs more than 1 3/4. 

 Just ahead, the presidential candidates are both claiming the upper hand after last night`s debates, but we`ll check out how their competing economic plans really measure up. We`ll be back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s "MONEYLINE Profile," A. Alfred Taubman, the former chairman of Sotheby`s. He`s known as the man who has gone from malls to Monets. With a $5,000 investment, he built a real estate empire which, today, is one of the largest developers of shopping centers in the country. In 1983, Taubman bought into the art world, overtaking Sotheby`s for $139 million. 

 That has turned to scandal. Last week, Taubman agreed to settle two civil suits, paying a total of $186 million, and now Sotheby`s could plead guilty tomorrow to criminal charges. There will be more on this. MONEYLINE will be back in a moment. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In our news digest this evening, hope tonight for an end to the violent clashes between Israelis and Palestinians. 

 Wolf Blitzer joins us from Washington with this late-breaking story -- Wolf. 

 WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: Thank you, Stuart. In a late development today, Palestinian Authority President Yasser Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak have tentatively agreed on a plan to stop the escalating violence in the Palestinian territories and Israel. 

 The deal was reached after marathon negotiations mediated by U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright in Paris. They were still talking into the night to work out final details. The deal hopes to put an end to a week of clashes that have left more than 60 dead and hundreds injured. 

 In other overseas news, a surprise ruling today from Yugoslavia. The constitutional court annulled parts of the country`s contested presidential election. The opposition has claimed an outright victory for its candidate, Vojislav Kostunica, but Milosevic has not conceded defeat. 

 It appears that, under the ruling, parliament must set a new election date, buying Milosevic more time in office. The opposition has been staging protests and strikes to put pressure on Milosevic to step down. Today, striking miners broke through a line of police officers trying to hold on to control of a coal mine. 

 In the U.S. presidential campaign, the candidates did not miss a step today. They were right back on the campaign trail after last night`s debate. Vice President Al Gore and Texas Governor George W. Bush hit key battleground states, looking to capitalize on what both sides interpreted as strong debate showings. 

 Those are some of the top stories. Join us for more on "THE WORLD TODAY." That`s at 8:00 p.m. Eastern, 5:00 p.m. Pacific -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Wolf Blitzer in Washington. 

 Now, an estimated 35 million people tuned in last night to see the presidential candidates square off. The facts and figures flew wildly through the evening, with Al Gore tearing into the Republican tax plan, and George Bush charging the vice president with using "fuzzy math." But exactly where do the numbers stack up? 

 Bill Dorman took out his calculator. Let`s see what he found. 

 What do you have, Bill? 

 BILL DORMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, conflict. Imagine that, Stuart. 

 Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan has said time and time again that we should allow the budget surplus to grow and not spend it. But Greenspan`s not a politician. If you take two politicians, add one prospective surplus, and you`ll have the big fight over how to spend it. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 (voice-over): It`s the budget surplus, stupid. That`s what the biggest economic fight comes down to this election season. 

 THOMAS GALLAGHER, POLITICAL ECONOMIST, 1ST GROUP: The biggest issue for the  financial markets is what to do with the surplus. 

 DORMAN: During the debate, Vice President Gore said his opponent will use the surplus for the wealthy, while Governor Bush said his opponent`s surplus plan favors big government. 

 GORE: Under Governor Bush`s tax-cut proposal, he would spend more money on tax cuts for the wealthiest 1 percent than all of the new spending that he proposes for education, health care, prescription drugs and national defense all combined. 

 BUSH: Under Vice President Gore`s plan, he`s going to grow the federal government in the largest increase since Lyndon Baines Johnson in 1965. And we`re talking about a massive government, folks. We`re talking about adding to or increasing 200 new programs, 200 programs, 20,000 new bureaucrats. 

 DORMAN: Both candidates complain about "fuzzy math," or numbers which don`t add up. In fact, Governor Bush`s own office says his plan does deliver more of a tax break to the wealthy, but it also includes all Americans. And the vice president`s campaign says Gore`s plan would increase government, but would also pay down the national debt faster than Governor Bush. 

 Keeping track of all these numbers and promises over time is tough. Earlier this year, Vice President Gore told MONEYLINE it`s critical to be accurate with projections of the surplus. 

 GORE: And having responsible numbers that are not overly optimistic is one of the keys to maintaining the confidence of the markets and maintaining the harmony between fiscal and monetary policy. 

 DORMAN: The Congressional Budget Office says the budget surplus, including Social Security, should total more than $4.5 trillion over the next 10 years, more than half of it a temporary surplus from the Social Security trust fund. Governor Bush recently told MONEYLINE what he plans to do with the overall surplus. 

 BUSH: Of that, I want half the money to go to Social Security. I want some of the money -- nearly a trillion -- to go for projects like prescription drugs for seniors, money to strengthen the military to keep the peace. I`ve got some views about education around the world. 

 DORMAN: The governor`s campaign defends the use of those numbers. But they don`t quite add up. His tax cut tops $1.3 trillion. But his new spending is $475 billion, with interest costs at $313 billion. Vice President Gore plans $480 billion in what he calls targeted tax cuts. 

 Gore`s big-ticket item is government spending: $870 billion, with interest costs estimated at $253 billion. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 DORMAN: Future debates are certain to feature more fights about numbers. But economists say there`s another factor to think about. Any spending or tax plan has to be approved by Congress. And unless the same party wins the White House and Congress, any economic plan put forth in this campaign will probably face some adjustments before it becomes law -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Key points for the markets, too. Bill Dorman, thanks very much. 

 In tonight`s "Tech Watch": a billion-dollar deal in the disk- drive industry. California-based Maxtor (URL: http://www.maxtor.com/) -- I`m sorry -- yes, that`s Maxtor. It announced that it is going to buy its rival Quantum`s Hard Drive (URL: http://www.quantum.com/) unit in an all-stock deal. The combined  company will be neck-in-neck with Seagate for the title of No. 1 disk-drive-maker in the world. 

 And checking on the stocks today, Quantum`s tracking stock of its hard-drive unit shot up more than 30 percent, gaining nearly 3 3/4 on the day. Maxtor lost less than 1/2 point. 

 And coming up: The profit potential at an online retailer is called into question on Wall Street. We`ll check out what rocked the boat at Amazon. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) VARNEY: In our next half hour, here`s what we have for you: Dell warns about sales, while Micron surprises to the upside. We`ll check out the after-hours action. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) ANNOUNCER: MONEYLINE continues. Here again, Stuart Varney. 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s headlines, another tech power house warns of poor sales: Dell Computer. Weighing down the top line, a familiar culprit, weak demand in Europe. A better showing from a rising chip-maker, though. Micron Technology blows past profit forecasts in an after-the-bell report. 

 Plus, fresh reports swirl about a new look for AT&T (URL: http://www.att.com/) , but after a run of restructuring rumors, will AT&T investors buy the story of a telecom turnaround? 

 First, though, more on tonight`s top story: Another after the bell warning, and once again it`s from a PC maker. Last week, Apple Computer issued a profit warning. Tonight, Dell Computer is the one that`s feeling the heat. It said it now expects third-quarter revenue will fall 3 percent below expectations due to weak demand in Europe. Dell said it still remains on track to meet third-quarter profit estimates, but the fourth quarter, that could come up short. Dell estimates earnings in the last quarter of 2000 could be 1 to 2 cents below forecasts. 

 In after-hours trading, Dell Computer was down 2 1/2 points, and that was in very heavy volume. And those losses could pressure the Nasdaq tomorrow and eat away at today`s comeback. The composite index did finish up more than 67 today after losing about 113 yesterday. 

 The Dow industrials also moved higher today to finish the session up more than 64 points at 10,784. As for the S&P 500, it, too, finished higher, a gain of nearly eight points there. The closing level was 1,434. 

 Now, checking some of the day`s biggest movers: IBM jumped more than four points and fellow Dow component Hewlett-Packard gained two. Cisco Systems also finished the day higher. It was up more than two points, closing just over 58 1/2. While other Internet stocks finished the day lower, Yahoo! (URL: http://www.yahoo.com/) managed a gain of nearly four. 

 And look at this, PMC-Sierra, well, that soared more than 10 1/2 points. 

 For a look at some of the other big movers on the Nasdaq -- and there were plenty of them -- let`s go to the Nasdaq marketsite. Here`s John Metaxas --John. 

 JOHN METAXAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Stuart, you know, around 2:30 today the 

 Nasdaq looked as if it may be ready to stage one of those late-day sell-offs. But instead, we had a dramatic turnaround led by a bounce in the oversold sector: the chip stocks up some 6 percent on the day. Internet stocks strong as well. 

 Dell Computer, of course, was down 38 cents, ahead of its after- the-bell news. This is a new 52-week low, and it`s interesting how the market sometimes can discount negative news before the news even comes out. Oracle was a stock that got hit hard early on but came back with the rest  of the market to finish down $1.50. It had traded close to $60 a share. Robertson Stephens downgrading it today after the analyst meeting yesterday, but most of the brokerage houses made positive comments about the stock. 

 Among the comeback kids today, the chip stocks, as we told you, Intel up 4 percent on the day helping to lead this market higher. It even brought back some of the e-commerce stocks. Ariba (URL: http://www.ariba.com/) surging more than $17. We had both Credit Suisse and Prudential saying this may give you some positive surprise when they report their earnings. 

 Finally, lest you think that the earnings warnings only come in the tech sector, Knight/Trimark (URL: http://www.knight-sec.com/) , the leading market -- one of the leading market makers at the Nasdaq, warning that the Nasdaq stock market weakness and the cost of building their global operations may cause them to miss expectations. The stock down 11 percent on the day. 

 I want to show you the six-day chart. You`ll recall we had that five- session losing streak: the rally last Thursday, then the Apple news hit. We had a three-session losing streak. The rally today, now the Dell news has hit. That has been a hallmark of this Nasdaq: an inability to continue rallies. 

 Let`s see if that holds true tomorrow -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: We shall. Another busy day. John Metaxas, thanks. 

 A blowout report from Micron Technology after the bell. The memory chip-maker soared past profit forecasts, beating fiscal fourth- quarter estimates by 20 cents a share. That`s what it beat the estimate by. 

 Steve Young has been crunching the numbers. He joins us with more on this one -- Steve. 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Stuart, Micron reported powerful results. It`s the country`s biggest dynamic memory chip-maker, the third biggest DRAM company in the world, and it says its customers are expecting strong demand during the final three months of the year. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 YOUNG (voice-over): Because of the extraordinarily volatile price of memory chips, estimates for Micron Technology earnings had been all over the lot: 75 cents a share at the low end, 96 cents the consensus, $1.15 the upper range. 

 But the company knocked the Silicon off the chip, beating the boldest estimates by a penny. If you include a one-time gain, it would have been another 4 cents higher. 

 Net income was $727 million for the company`s final fiscal quarter on sales of more than $2 1/2 billion. On its conference call, Micron said there was a sales surge as PC companies did extra ordering for the normally strong back-to-school season. 

 MONA ERAIBA, ROSETTA MANAGEMENT GROUP: Micron is starting to push hard on flash memories and SRAM, which are products that are used more in hand-held devices, et cetera. But I still think the PC market overall globally is still very healthy. Europe is slower, but definitely the global market is still a healthy market. 

 YOUNG: The Boise, Idaho company`s blazing results follow a five- month period where the stock stuck around $40, then a surge, followed by a searing September which saw nearly half the company`s value go down in flames. 

 Analysts expect Micron`s financial results to turn the semiconductor sector into a scorcher once again. 

 CHARLES BOUCHER, BEAR STEARNS: In general, the semiconductor stocks have followed Micron to a large extent. I think there`s a lot of pessimism on the street that doesn`t reflect some of the fundamental strength that we continue to see in the actual markets themselves, provided we don`t have some kind of an economic collapse or economic recession. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 YOUNG: Now, all this may bode well for companies that make hand- held devices: wireless gadgets, digital cameras and phones. Micron says while PC companies are still its biggest customers, those other markets are growing faster, and that could be the most important source of the strengthening demand. 

 There`s a caveat to Micron`s earnings: Its latest quarter ended in August. There`s a lot of concern for a September slump in demand for many tech firms. That`s one reason Micron shares are going nowhere after-hours, up just 3/16 to 47 1/8 in heavy trading. But again, that`s after a gain in the regular session of nearly four -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: After a report like that, it`s just hard to say what`s going to happen to the stock, isn`t it? Steve Young reporting, thank you. 

 Despite today`s after-the-bell gains, companies like Micron Technology have taken a huge hit in the past few weeks as investors grow more concerned about weak sales in the PC industry. While Micron is still up for the year, its shares have taken a beating since the end of August, down nearly 43 percent. 

 As you might imagine, Intel is also sharply lower, down 44 percent since the end of August. That chip-maker issued its own third-quarter revenue warning just last month, late last month, in fact. 

 Dell Computer down more than 35 percent since the end of August, and Apple Computer, it has actually fared the worst, down 61 percent during that same time period. 

 Another company that`s been hit particularly hard of late, Amazon.com (URL: http://www.amazon.com/) , and today, one analyst said it may have even more to worry about then just a struggling stock. 

 Terry Keenan goes behind the numbers from the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Terry, what have you got on this one? 

 KEENAN: Well, Stuart, when it comes to spin, Amazon.com is a category killer in getting Wall Street to put the best face on its money-losing business model. But finally, with the stock down 68 percent from the highs hit last December, analysts are starting to raise some serious questions. And today, one analyst took her skepticism even further. 

 Lauren Cooks Levitan of Robertson Stephens decided to do some heavy-duty shopping on Amazon, and what she discovered was that the company`s current business model is incompatible with profitability. In other words, according to her, it can`t make money the way it`s currently doing business. 

 Here`s the problem, says Levitan. With 18 million different items up for sale, Amazon has almost as many products as it does customers, a retailing nightmare. But it gets even worse, as Levitan discovered when she went shopping for multiple items on Amazon: say, books and electronics. Amazon had to split the order into different shipments and eat the extra cost. Now, the loss to Amazon, according to Levitan, $2.91 an order. 

 Now, Levitan says that Amazon must reduce these split orders or it may never make it into the black. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 LAUREN COOKS LEVITAN, ROBERTSON STEPHENS: The main thing they can do is by having a more manageable inventory base, by having fewer items, and they can use merchandising skills to give the appearance that they have millions of items available, but really be focusing customers, helping them edit the assortment, and drive them toward certain purchases. It means they can make bets on a fewer -- on a smaller, tighter group of items and at the same time not necessarily dilute their brand proposition one bit. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 KEENAN: Well, Amazon, of course, has spent millions in a bet to provide what it calls the biggest selection on Earth, and the bulls point out strong sales growth in its electronics businesses and others. But the Street will be watching closely for these fulfillment costs to come down as we head into the holiday season and beyond. 

 As for the stock, Stuart, after trading down $4 this morning, it finished up nearly a dollar, helped by the overall rally in tech shares. But a terrible year for Amazon stock. 

 VARNEY: You know, that was a very harsh critique of Amazon`s business model, was it not? 

 KEENAN: It was, and it`s interesting, because she and her staff did go online, they did place a lot of orders for different products, and this is what they came up with. And it`s important for Amazon to get the message across that it`s trying to bring these fulfillment costs down. They had a big meeting with analysts just a couple of weeks ago, brought them out to a fulfillment center in Nevada just to underscore that. But Levitan doing some legwork of her own and coming up with this analysis. 

 VARNEY: All right, that`s Terry Keenan at the Big Board. Thanks, Terry. 

 Here`s what`s next on MONEYLINE: What is the fate of AT&T? It`s a question being debated not just in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, or on wall Street, but in the press as well. We`ll bring you that story next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s MONEYLINE Focus: awaiting a move from AT&T. The shares of AT&T have slumped further and further this year, more and more headlines have emerged detailing all the drastic proposals that are on the table. 

 One that emerged today, a proposed spin-off for AT&T`s consumer long- distance unit. Many believe that the stories are trial balloons, floated by those with a vested interest, trying to gauge investor reaction. Peter Viles looks at the connection between the media, and the markets, and the management -- Peter. 

 PETER VILES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Stuart, there have been so many reports now about possible restructurings at AT&T, so many different scenarios floated  into the market, that some investors are just beginning to run out of patience. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 VILES (voice-over): For AT&T, it was just another wacky Wednesday. There were published reports that management wants to spin off its consumer long distance division and wants to arrange mergers with British Telecom (URL: http://www.bt.com/)  and Nextel (URL: http://www.nextel.com/) . AT&T, as is its custom, had no comment. And investors didn`t have much to say, either. AT&T shares gained only fractionally. 

 MEL MARTEN, EDWARD JONES: Part of AT&T`s strategy here with all of the talk in the market about every possible combination or option that AT&T might take, could be to judge the market`s reaction. And, you know, certainly, so far a lot of the options the market hasn`t had a big reaction to. 

 VILES: The last big reaction by investors was in early May, when the company warned of weak earnings. That`s when speculation began about a spin-off of the long distance unit. There were reports in July that AT&T`s biggest individual shareholder, John Malone, preferred to make it a tracking stock and reports in August that AT&T had held informal talks with British Telecom. 

 AT&T has held its tongue through all of this. Its stock has slipped to a three-year low, and some see all the trial balloons as evidence that AT&T under Michael Armstrong cannot move as quickly as it needs to. 

 ART HOGAN, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Clearly it`s not necessarily Armstrong`s problem that it`s a more competitive environment, but the pace at which he`s adjusted to that comes under question. So I think perhaps the best answer would be a shake up at the top, and not floating another tracking stock and not spinning off another division, but perhaps just changing things at the top and changing the way they do business. 

 VILES: AT&T`s last restructuring has not helped. Since it was spun-off as a  tracking stock in April, AT&T Wireless (URL: http://www.attws.com/) has dropped 26 percent, creating a major drag on AT&T`s stock. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VILES: One complicating factor in all of this: federal regulators. The FCC said today it would closely examine any proposed spin-off of a long distance division to make sure that such a move is in the best interests of consumers -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Peter Viles, thanks very much. And a brief returning, AT&T`s stock was up 5/8, but it closed below $30 a share, still at 29 3/4, despite all the speculation. 

 Next, we`re going to talk to a stock-picking star who scours the market for real value and has seen his fund gain an impressive 30 percent so far this year. Find out what he`s buying, next on MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Tonight`s stock picking star, an investment style that has fallen out of the fashion on Wall Street. Many portfolio managers have turning their backs on value investing. 

 We`re joined now by one fund manager who is wholeheartedly embracing it. Edward von der Linde manages the Lord Abbett Mid Cap Value Fund. And so far  this year, the fund is trouncing the averages. It is up more than 30 percent after returning just 4 percent last year. 

 You may not have heard of some of the fund`s top holdings, but they have posted some spectacular returns, like Caremark RX (URL: http://www.medpartners.com/) up 117 percent, XL Capital (URL: http://www.xl.bm/) up 47 percent, TECO Energy (URL: http://www.teco.net/) up 51 percent year-to- date. 

 Joining us with more, fund manager Edward von der Linde. Edward, congratulations and welcome to MONEYLINE. 

 EDWARD VON DER LINDE, LORD ABBET MID CAP VALUE FUND: Thank you very much. 

 VARNEY: You describe yourself as a real value guy. 

 VON DER LINDE: OK, 

 VARNEY: Wait a second. Do you see value now in Lucent, let`s say $32, Intel at $42, Dell in the mid-20s? Have they come down far enough to make them a value play for you? 

 VON DER LINDE: Well, first off, they are not necessarily a mid cap stock. 

 VARNEY: My fault. 

 VON DER LINDE: Which is fine. But no, they haven`t. Xerox (URL: http://www.xerox.com/) may have, though, and that`s now is a mid cap stock by our definition. Don`t confuse price with value. That`s one of the things we`ve seen the market doing over the last few years, is if the price goes down, you buy it because it`s cheaper. Cheap does not mean it`s a value. 

 Stuart: Are you looking for a P/E ratio that`s very low? Is that an indicator to even jump on? 

 VON DER LONDE: We`re actually looking more at the intrinsic value. What can or what should a company and its assets earn? What`s it`s normalized returns? And then we try to find what catalyst is there to make it get back to that level. So it`s not P/E, that will fall out of that equation, but it`s more of an intrinsic value type of methodology. 

 VARNEY: You`ve got about 20 percent of your fund`s money in utilities. Edward, it`s years since we`ve had a utility investor on this program. What is the play in utilities at the moment? 

 VON DER LINDE: Well, it`s first the deregulation that`s going on across the country. That`s going to cause a tremendous amount consolidation  because this country can`t support the 100-plus public utilities that are out there. 

 A lot of folks don`t want to recognize that right now because they represent such a small portion of the S&P 500. But as deregulation continues across the country, and we`ve already got half the states that have deregulated, they going to consolidate because that`s the  only way they can survive. 

 Stuart: So what are you looking for in a utility company specifically? It`s not a low P/E, what are you looking for? 

 VON DER LINDE: Well remember, what`s happening -- in the regulator universe, they can only get a certain return on their asset base because it was regulated. Now what`s happening when they deregulate is they`re given the opportunity to increase the turnover on their assets. For example. If you have a management that`s enlightened and a deregulatory plan that allows them to realize a return on those assets, you have the equation for a very, very good stock. 

 VARNEY: OK, let`s turn this one around for a second. You were buying oil and energy companies in, what, late 1998 when oil was at $10 a barrel. Now those energy companies had a really nice run up. 

 VON DER LINDE: Yes. 

 VARNEY: Do you see value in them or is it time to sell? 

 VON DER LINDE: Actually, there still is value in them. But the short-term, the near-termers will be influenced by oil prices. But these companies still haven`t started to discount $24 a barrel oil in their earnings estimates. 

 VARNEY: And you`re not selling them yet? 

 VON DER LINDE: We have moved through the group as time has gone on from the domestic integrateds to more of the natural gas and the oil service companies. So we migrate through the group, but no, we are not reducing our energy exposure at this point. 

 VARNEY: Edward von der Linde, we thank you very much for joining us and congratulations on a 30 percent performance. 

 VON DER LINDE: Thank you. Thank you very much. 

 VARNEY: Thank you. 

 Coming up next, the new face of investors being courted by Wall Street. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Wall Street has long needed to learn different languages to appeal to international investors. And that courting of clients has taken on a new intensity in terms of the Chinese community living in the United States. 

 China boasts one of the world`s highest savings rate, hovering about 40 percent. And many Chinese immigrants to these shores have retained their desire to make their money work for them. And Wall Street is taking notice. 

 Allan Chernoff has the story. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ALLAN CHERNOFF, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): There is big demand for IRA accounts and other investment vehicles at the TD Waterhouse (URL: http://www.tdwaterhousegroup.com/) brokerage in Flushing, New York. The neighborhood is home to many Chinese-Americans born in the U.S., as well immigrants from Hong Kong and the mainland. And brokerage firms are now aggressively courting them. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): If you have money, you must go into the market. But if you don`t have money, there`s nothing you can do. 

 CHERNOFF: The talk here on Main Street is almost as likely to be about the price of plums as Priceline (URL: http://www.priceline.com/) stock. Charles Schwab (URL: http://www.schwab.com/) is Wall Street`s leader in serving Asian-Americans. The company`s Chinese-language Web site last month had five million transactions, trades and requests for data, a fivefold increase from the same month last year. 

 Schwab estimates Chinese-Americans hold $150 billion in investable assets. Already the firm has 14 Chinese-language offices in the U.S., and it plans five more. 

 NICK HSIEH, CHARLES SCHWAB & CO.: The growth rate is tremendous. For instance, when we opened at this branch here two years ago, we have done 

 a tremendous amount of job in bringing in customer assets. The second year, we almost doubled that. 

 CHERNOFF (on camera): It`s not just Flushing . A high-percentage of Schwab`s Asian customers are Mandarin speakers who live in Silicon Valley. At TD Waterhouse, the average Chinese-American account is more than 50 percent the size of the firm`s typical account. And trading volume among the Chinese is growing at more than twice the rate of the firm`s  average account. 

 FRANK PETRILLI, PRES. & COO, TD WATERHOUSE: The Asian markets are more volatile than the U.S. markets. And so they have migrated toward a more trading mentality. We`ve also attributed it to the fact that people who are immigrants generally are entrepreneurial and basically have a higher-risk tolerance than others. 

 CHERNOFF: To be sure, plenty of Chinese-Americans prefer to invest conservatively. 

 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I try to avoid something I really don`t know, like biotech. Everybody says it`s good money. But I don`t know them at all. 

 CHERNOFF: Conservative or aggressive, it can`t hurt to observe Chinese good-fortune traditions, which is why TD Waterhouse puts a lucky eight in account numbers for Chinese, who will also find good luck feng-shui goldfish at the Main Street branch office. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CHERNOFF: Yet one more example of the marketing effort: Charles Schwab`s name in Chinese has four characters which translate as: "well established trustworthy asset manager" -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Smart, isn`t it? Is there actually specific targeting of high-net-worth Asian immigrants in Silicon Valley? 

 CHERNOFF: Oh, there`s no question about it. And they`re well aware -- Schwab being based in San Francisco -- that a tremendous percentage of the big entrepreneurs there are Chinese. In fact, a University of California study found that between 1980 and 1998, 17 percent of the high-tech companies in Silicon Valley were being run by Chinese-Americans. 

 VARNEY: That`s a great statistic. Allan Chernoff, thanks for that report. Many thanks. 

 OK, up next, AHEAD OF THE CURVE: some of what you need to know tonight before tomorrow`s markets open. And yes, you are watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Take a look at some of what could move the markets tomorrow. Dow component ALCOA (URL: http://www.alcoa.com/) is due to report third-quarter earnings. The forecast is for 42 cents a share there. And, of course, keep an eye on Dell, which issued an after-the-bell sales warning -- and also Micron Technology, which beat profit expectations in its late-day report today. 

 On the economic front, the Fed releases the minutes from its August meeting -- also expect jobless claims numbers and same-store sales figures for September. And the vice presidential candidates will debate in Kentucky. 

 Now, to stay a step ahead of the markets, tune into AHEAD OF THE CURVE every morning at 5:00 Eastern right here on CNN. And remember, please, MONEYLINE really wants to hear from you. Send us your comments, your questions, your feedback by e-mail to moneyline@cnn.com. 

 A program remainder: Tomorrow on MONEYLINE, we will be joined by the chief executive officer of GM Hughes (URL: http://www.hughes.com/) . That is Michael Smith. He`s going to be our guest tomorrow. 

 That is MONEYLINE for this Wednesday. I`m Stuart Varney. Good night from New York. 

 CROSSFIRE is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute 

 the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or  in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions  (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dwa4000b4
?
 

 Dow Jones industrial average increases 64.74, closing at 10,784.48 

 BY LISA SINGHANIA 
AP
647 words
4 October 2000
22:59
The Canadian Press
CPR
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) _ Blue chips led Wall Street higher Wednesday, lifting the Nasdaq composite index to its first positive finish this week despite a continuing slide in technology stocks. 

 Lower oil prices made chemical companies and airlines especially attractive buys to investors looking for less risky investments. However, a profit warning from Dell Computer after the market closed raised the likelihood of a return to the market's losing streak on Thursday. 

 Dell fell $2 in after-hours trading after warning that it, like other high-profile tech companies, expected to report disappointing earnings. Dell fell 38 cents to $28.19 in regular trading. 

 During the regular session, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 64.74 to 10,784.48, giving up ground after gaining more than 120 points during the day. 

 The tech-focused Nasdaq rose 67.27 to 3,523.10 after spending much of the day in negative territory. The gain erased some of Tuesday's 113-point loss, which left the index at its lowest close since late May. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 7.86 at 1,434.32. 

 ``I'd characterize the day as a rebound from the oversold levels of yesterday, specifically in tech stocks,'' said Bob Streed, portfolio manager for the Northern Select Equity Fund. ``This is just a bounce you're getting in some stocks. I don't think these gains are sustainable.'' 

 Bargain hunting after the market's recent weeks of decline prompted much of Wednesday's upturn. Investors, while increasingly anxious about third-quarter earnings reports due out this month, were still looking for good investments. 

 Buyers were drawn to shares of chemical and airlines stocks, believing that heavily oil-dependent companies will see a reduction in costs as the price of oil falls. A barrel of light, sweet crude traded at $31.43 Wednesday, down from nearly $38 last month. 

 DuPont rose 94 cents to $45.31 and Dow Chemical was up 31 cents at $27.25. Investors bid Delta up $1.88 to $45.75; Continental Airlines rose $1.38 to $47. 

 Technology stocks spent much of the day down, but staged a mild recovery after Oracle issued a statement reaffirming a positive earnings outlook. 

 The software maker itself ended the day down $1.38 at $68.13, but recovered from an earlier loss of as much as $6. The stock fell 12 per cent Tuesday. 

 Bargain hunting also prompted buying in chipmakers, whose stock prices have generally drifted downward. Intel rose $1.69 to $42 and Micron Technology was up $4.06 to $47.13. 

 Among stocks that issued bleak earnings announcements, Knight Trading fell $3.69 to $28.50. Investors, however, bid Computer Associates up $3.63 to $28.06 after it said late Tuesday that earnings would be below Wall Street estimates. 

 Old-economy stocks got most of the attention. Boeing was up for a second day, rising $1.25 to $61.13. International Paper climbed $1.88 to $31.50. 

 AT&T rose 63 cents to $29.75 on published reports it may spin off its struggling consumer long-distance business. BellSouth was up $1.94 to $42.94 and SBC climbed $1.69 to $51.63 after the companies said they would make a major announcement Thursday. 

 ``When times get a little uncertain, the older names that are sustainable growth companies or value companies ... come to mind for investment allocation,'' said A.C. Moore, chief investment strategist for Dunvegan Associates in Santa Barbara, Calif. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 7-5 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume came to 1.39 billion shares, ahead of the 879.11 million in the last session. 

 The Russell 2000 index rose 2.82 to 507.49. 

Document cpr0000020010804dwa4010lz
?
 

 FFBN Financials Wrap: Group Weakens On Earnings Outlook 

796 words
4 October 2000
22:32
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
        WASHINGTON (FFBN)--Profit-taking and an earnings warning from Knight
Trading Group Inc. put a damper on the Federal Filings financials indexes
Wednesday.



        Knight Trading said it will report lower-than-expected third quarter
earnings because of a difficult market environment in the late summer and
expenses to build its international market-making capabilities.  By day's
end, Knight Trading had slipped 11%, or $3.69, to $28.50.
        Knight Trading's warning shifted the spotlight to other brokers,
which in turn slipped lower. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. fell 3.9%, or $4.44, to
$109.44, while Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. declined 3.3%, or $4.75, to
$140.63.
        On the whole, the Federal Filings Brokerage Index declined 2.2%, or
6,537, to 288,045.7.
        Banking stocks didn't escape the downward shift.  The Federal Filings
Banking Index fell 0.9%, or 4,271.4, to 488,804.4.  And news of further
consolidation within the banking sector didn't stem the decline.  Firstar
Corp. said it will purchase U.S. Bancorp for about $21.1 billion in stock.
The new institution, which would have assets of more than $160 billion, would
 become the eight-largest U.S. banking institution.  Firstar lost 10%, or
$2.25, to $20, while U.S. Bancorp gained 7.8%, or $1.81, to $25.
        The merger, however, is increasing pressure on smaller banks to
increase their size for competitive purposes.  As a result, banks thought to
be potential acquirers traded down Thursday, while those seen as targets
traded up.
        First Union, which rose 5.2%, was among those companies considered
takeover targets.  The stock closed up $1.69 to $34.13.
        Meanwhile, the Federal Filings Insurance Index declined 0.2%, or
1,169.8, to 500,084.
        Turning to the broad markets, the Dow Jones Industrial Average
advanced 64.74, or 0.6%, to 10,784.48, while the Standard & Poor's 500-Stock
Market gained 7.86, or 0.55%, to 1,434.32.  The Nasdaq Composite Index rose
67.27, or 2%, to 3,523.10.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                            Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
TRUSTCO BANK CORP.                Close   Change  Change   00E   01E
                                 $12.33   +$0.08  +0.64% $0.76 $0.83
TrustCo Bank Corp. raised its tender offer for Cohoes Bancorp Inc. to $18 a
share in cash and stock from $16 a share in stock, according to an amended
registration statement filed Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  TrustCo also increased its tender offer for Hudson River Bancorp
Inc. to $17 a share in cash and stock from the original offer of $14 a share
in stock.  An exact exchange ratio for both tenders will be set using
TrustCo's average closing price over a yet-to-be-determined time period.
                                            Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
WEBSTER FINANCIAL CORP.           Close   Change  Change   00E   01E
                                 $25.69   -$0.63  -2.38% $2.51 $2.74
Webster Financial Corp.'s Webster Bank signed a definitive agreement to sell
its Olde Port Bank division to Granite Bank, a New Hampshire-based unit of
Granite State Bankshares Inc.  The companies didn't release the deal's terms.
 Webster Financial anticipates the transaction will close by year-end.  Olde
Port's two branch offices in Portsmouth and Hampton have a total of $47
million in loans and $47 million in deposits.
                                            Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
MERCANTILE BANK CORP              Close   Change  Change   00E   01E
                                 $12.25   +$0.38  +3.16% $1.00 $1.18
Mercantile Bank Corp. President and Chief Executive Michael Price said the
Grand Rapids, Mich., bank expects to report third-quarter earnings of 29
cents to 33 cents a share.  Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial
predict the company will earn 27 cents a share for the quarter.  Mercantile
Bank reported an upside earnings surprise in the second quarter, with
operating earnings of 28 cents a share, 5 cents better than the First Call
consensus.
                                            Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
INTERCOUNTY BANCSHARES            Close   Change  Change   00E   01E
                                    $16        0       0   N/A   N/A
Intercounty Bancshares Inc. said it boosted its loan loss provisions for the
third quarter and restructured a portion of its securities portfolio, both of
which will significantly affect its third quarter and 2000 results.  In a
Form 8K filed Wednesday with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Intercounty Bancshares said it boosted its loan loss provisions for the third
quarter to $725,000.
The company, however, didn't spell out projected third quarter or full-year
results.  Intercounty Bancshares said it increased its loan loss provisions
because of problems concerning a single business customer with outstanding
loan balances of about $6.1 million.



17:32


Document ff00000020010806dwa401d1i
?
 

 Dow Ends Up 65; Nasdaq Adds 67 

 By LISA SINGHANIA 
AP Business Writer
702 words
4 October 2000
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2000 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Blue chips led Wall Street higher Wednesday, lifting the Nasdaq composite index to its first positive finish this week despite a continuing slide in technology stocks. 

 Lower oil prices made chemical companies and airlines especially attractive buys to investors looking for less risky investments. However, a profit warning from Dell Computer after the market closed raised the likelihood of a return to the market's losing streak on Thursday. 

 Dell fell $2.38 in after-hours trading after warning that it, like other high-profile tech companies, expected to report disappointing earnings. Dell fell 38 cents to $28.19 in regular trading. 

 During the regular session, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 64.74 to 10,784.48, giving up ground after gaining more than 120 points during the day. 

 The tech-focused Nasdaq rose 67.27 to 3,523.10 after spending much of the day in negative territory. The gain erased some of Tuesday's 113-point loss, which left the index at its lowest close since late May. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 7.86 at 1,434.32. 

 "I'd characterize the day as a rebound from the oversold levels of yesterday, specifically in tech stocks," said Bob Streed, portfolio manager for the Northern Select Equity Fund. "This is just a bounce you're getting in some stocks. I don't think these gains are sustainable." 

 Bargain hunting after the market's recent weeks of decline prompted much of Wednesday's upturn. Investors, while increasingly anxious about third-quarter earnings reports due out this month, were still looking for good investments. 

 Buyers were drawn to shares of chemical and airlines stocks, believing that heavily oil-dependent companies will see a reduction in costs as the price of oil falls. A barrel of light, sweet crude traded at $31.43 Wednesday, down from nearly $38 last month. 

 DuPont rose $1 to $45.38 and Dow Chemical was up 31 cents at $27.25. Investors bid Delta up $1.88 to $45.75; Continental Airlines rose $1.38 to $47. 

 Technology stocks spent much of the day down, but staged a mild recovery after Oracle issued a statement reaffirming a positive earnings outlook. 

 The software maker itself ended the day down $1.38 at $68.13, but recovered from an earlier loss of as much as $6. The stock fell 12 percent Tuesday. 

 Bargain hunting also prompted buying in chipmakers, whose stock prices have generally drifted downward. Intel rose $1.69 to $42 and Micron Technology was up $3.94 to $47. 

 Among stocks that issued bleak earnings announcements, Knight Trading fell $3.69 to $28.50. Investors, however, bid Computer Associates up $3.63 to $28.06 after it said late Tuesday that earnings would be below Wall Street estimates. 

 Old-economy stocks got most of the attention. Boeing was up for a second day, rising $1.25 to $61.13. International Paper climbed $1.88 to $31.50. 

 AT&T rose 63 cents to $29.75 on published reports it may spin off its struggling consumer long-distance business. BellSouth was up $1.94 to $42.94 and SBC climbed $1.69 to $51.63 after the companies said they would make a major announcement Thursday. 

 "When times get a little uncertain, the older names that are sustainable growth companies or value companies ... come to mind for investment allocation," said A.C. Moore, chief investment strategist for Dunvegan Associates in Santa Barbara, Calif. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 13-to-10 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. Consolidated volume came to 1.39 billion shares, ahead of the 1.31 billion shares in the last session. 

 The Russell 2000 index rose 2.82 to 507.49. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 1.49 percent. Germany's DAX index fell 0.57 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 was off 0.16 percent, and France's CAC-40 fell 1.63 percent. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

AP-Wall-Street; D77DRA5G0

Document asp0000020010804dwa402b1b
?
 

 Stock prices close higher, but investor angst persists 

 By LISA SINGHANIA 
AP Business Writer
700 words
4 October 2000
23:10
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Blue chips led Wall Street higher Wednesday, lifting the Nasdaq composite index to its first positive finish this week despite a continuing slide in technology stocks. 

 Lower oil prices made chemical companies and airlines especially attractive buys to investors looking for less risky investments. However, a profit warning from Dell Computer after the market closed raised the likelihood of a return to the market's losing streak on Thursday. 

 Dell fell $2.38 in after-hours trading after warning that it, like other high-profile tech companies, expected to report disappointing earnings. Dell fell 38 cents to $28.19 in regular trading. 

 During the regular session, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 64.74 to 10,784.48, giving up ground after gaining more than 120 points during the day. 

 The tech-focused Nasdaq rose 67.27 to 3,523.10 after spending much of the day in negative territory. The gain erased some of Tuesday's 113-point loss, which left the index at its lowest close since late May. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 7.86 at 1,434.32. 

 "I'd characterize the day as a rebound from the oversold levels of yesterday, specifically in tech stocks," said Bob Streed, portfolio manager for the Northern Select Equity Fund. "This is just a bounce you're getting in some stocks. I don't think these gains are sustainable." 

 Bargain hunting after the market's recent weeks of decline prompted much of Wednesday's upturn. Investors, while increasingly anxious about third-quarter earnings reports due out this month, were still looking for good investments. 

 Buyers were drawn to shares of chemical and airlines stocks, believing that heavily oil-dependent companies will see a reduction in costs as the price of oil falls. A barrel of light, sweet crude traded at $31.43 Wednesday, down from nearly $38 last month. 

 DuPont rose $1 to $45.38 and Dow Chemical was up 31 cents at $27.25. Investors bid Delta up $1.88 to $45.75; Continental Airlines rose $1.38 to $47. 

 Technology stocks spent much of the day down, but staged a mild recovery after Oracle issued a statement reaffirming a positive earnings outlook. 

 The software maker itself ended the day down $1.38 at $68.13, but recovered from an earlier loss of as much as $6. The stock fell 12 percent Tuesday. 

 Bargain hunting also prompted buying in chipmakers, whose stock prices have generally drifted downward. Intel rose $1.69 to $42 and Micron Technology was up $3.94 to $47. 

 Among stocks that issued bleak earnings announcements, Knight Trading fell $3.69 to $28.50. Investors, however, bid Computer Associates up $3.63 to $28.06 after it said late Tuesday that earnings would be below Wall Street estimates. 

 Old-economy stocks got most of the attention. Boeing was up for a second day, rising $1.25 to $61.13. International Paper climbed $1.88 to $31.50. 

 AT&T rose 63 cents to $29.75 on published reports it may spin off its struggling consumer long-distance business. BellSouth was up $1.94 to $42.94 and SBC climbed $1.69 to $51.63 after the companies said they would make a major announcement Thursday. 

 "When times get a little uncertain, the older names that are sustainable growth companies or value companies ... come to mind for investment allocation," said A.C. Moore, chief investment strategist for Dunvegan Associates in Santa Barbara, Calif. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 13-to-10 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. Consolidated volume came to 1.39 billion shares, ahead of the 1.31 billion shares in the last session. 

 The Russell 2000 index rose 2.82 to 507.49. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 1.49 percent. Germany's DAX index fell 0.57 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 was off 0.16 percent, and France's CAC-40 fell 1.63 percent. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010804dwa40158v
?
 

 Stock prices close higher, but investor angst persists 

 By LISA SINGHANIA 
AP Business Writer
700 words
4 October 2000
22:35
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Blue chips led Wall Street higher Wednesday, lifting the Nasdaq composite index to its first positive finish this week despite a continuing slide in technology stocks. 

 Lower oil prices made chemical companies and airlines especially attractive buys to investors looking for less risky investments. However, a profit warning from Dell Computer after the market closed raised the likelihood of a return to the market's losing streak on Thursday. 

 Dell fell $2 in after-hours trading after warning that it, like other high-profile tech companies, expected to report disappointing earnings. Dell fell 38 cents to $28.19 in regular trading. 

 During the regular session, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 64.74 to 10,784.48, giving up ground after gaining more than 120 points during the day. 

 The tech-focused Nasdaq rose 67.27 to 3,523.10 after spending much of the day in negative territory. The gain erased some of Tuesday's 113-point loss, which left the index at its lowest close since late May. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 7.86 at 1,434.32. 

 "I'd characterize the day as a rebound from the oversold levels of yesterday, specifically in tech stocks," said Bob Streed, portfolio manager for the Northern Select Equity Fund. "This is just a bounce you're getting in some stocks. I don't think these gains are sustainable." 

 Bargain hunting after the market's recent weeks of decline prompted much of Wednesday's upturn. Investors, while increasingly anxious about third-quarter earnings reports due out this month, were still looking for good investments. 

 Buyers were drawn to shares of chemical and airlines stocks, believing that heavily oil-dependent companies will see a reduction in costs as the price of oil falls. A barrel of light, sweet crude traded at $31.43 Wednesday, down from nearly $38 last month. 

 DuPont rose 94 cents to $45.31 and Dow Chemical was up 31 cents at $27.25. Investors bid Delta up $1.88 to $45.75; Continental Airlines rose $1.38 to $47. 

 Technology stocks spent much of the day down, but staged a mild recovery after Oracle issued a statement reaffirming a positive earnings outlook. 

 The software maker itself ended the day down $1.38 at $68.13, but recovered from an earlier loss of as much as $6. The stock fell 12 percent Tuesday. 

 Bargain hunting also prompted buying in chipmakers, whose stock prices have generally drifted downward. Intel rose $1.69 to $42 and Micron Technology was up $4.06 to $47.13. 

 Among stocks that issued bleak earnings announcements, Knight Trading fell $3.69 to $28.50. Investors, however, bid Computer Associates up $3.63 to $28.06 after it said late Tuesday that earnings would be below Wall Street estimates. 

 Old-economy stocks got most of the attention. Boeing was up for a second day, rising $1.25 to $61.13. International Paper climbed $1.88 to $31.50. 

 AT&T rose 63 cents to $29.75 on published reports it may spin off its struggling consumer long-distance business. BellSouth was up $1.94 to $42.94 and SBC climbed $1.69 to $51.63 after the companies said they would make a major announcement Thursday. 

 "When times get a little uncertain, the older names that are sustainable growth companies or value companies ... come to mind for investment allocation," said A.C. Moore, chief investment strategist for Dunvegan Associates in Santa Barbara, Calif. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 7-to-5 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 920.73 million shares, ahead of the 879.11 million in the last session. 

 The Russell 2000 index rose 2.82 to 507.49. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 1.49 percent. Germany's DAX index fell 0.57 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 was off 0.16 percent, and France's CAC-40 fell 1.63 percent. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010804dwa4014za
?
 

 Dow ekes out gain, Nasdaq slides after Fed holds firm. 

512 words
3 October 2000
21:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 3 (Reuters) - Most U.S. stocks gave up large gains on Tuesday, but the blue-chip Dow average eked out a small gain after the Fed left interest rates alone, as expected, and investors returned to their preoccupation with the recent stream of bad news on corporate earnings. 

 The reversal was sharpest in the Nasdaq Composite Index, which closed down 113.68 points, or 3.19 percent, at 3,455.22, according to the latest figures. Earlier, the Nasdaq was up more than 70 points. Tuesday's drop follows Monday's slide of about 104 points. 

 In comparison, the Dow Jones industrial average rose modestly, for the second straight day, as investors turned to basic materials names, notably chemical and metals stocks. 

 The Dow added 19.61 points, or 0.18 percent, to 10,719,74. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index dropped 9.87 points, or 0.69 percent, to 1,426.36. 

 "It looks like the the market traded up into the Federal Reserve annoucement on the expectation they would leave rates unchanged and maintain the (anti-inflation) bias. The market welcomed the news it had been expecting, and is now taking profits," said Charlie Reinhard, senior strategist at Lehman Bros. 

 The market "is now looking down the road to the presidential debates tonight, the employment report on Friday and the earnings-reporting season" due to get under way next week. 

 "My guess is that market is feeling relief about the Fed, but a little nervous about the elections. People want to hear what the candidates' plans are for the budget surplus," he added. 

 At mid-afternoon, Federal Reserve policymakers announced they had decided to leave interest rates unchanged, and maintained a cautious stance on inflation. After a brief period of steady trade, major market indexes then headed south. 

 Shares of DuPont Co. and Dow Chemical Co. staged a comeback, pulled from a long slump by supportive comments from a top sector analyst. 

 Shares of DuPont, the No. 1 U.S. chemical company and one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow average, climbed $3, or 7.26 percent, to $44-5/16 on the New York Stock Exchange, while Dow Chemical, the No. 2 U.S. chemical company, rose $2, or about 8 percent, to $26-15/16. 

 Goldman Sachs analyst Avi Nash said the stocks appeared to have bottomed out, citing a drop in oil prices, a stabilisation of the euro, which is Europe's single currency, and the long fall in chemical stocks. He said he believed the sector "is at bottom and the risk-reward has turned favourable again." 

 Apple Computer Inc. continued to face the wrath of sellers for the third day in a row after the company warned late last week that results would fall below expectations. 

 Apple stock fell another $1-15/16, or 7.99 percent, to $22-5/16. Before last week's profit warning, Apple was trading in the low $50s per share. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa305srl
?
 

 US Corp Bonds - Xerox gets few bids after warning. 

 By Jonathan Stempel 
644 words
3 October 2000
14:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 3 (Reuters) - Traders said Xerox Corp.'s bonds fell Tuesday, and were getting few bids, after the world's No. 1 photocopier company said it expects a third-quarter loss instead of a profit, citing soft sales, heavy competition and a weak euro. 

 In secondary trading, meanwhile, spreads, the yield difference between corporate bonds and comparable maturity U.S. Treasuries, were unchanged. 

 High-yield, or junk, bond prices rose about 1/8, according to traders. 

 XEROX 

 Xerox said after the stock market closed Monday that it expects to report a fiscal third quarter loss of 15 to 20 cents per share. Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected a 12 cent gain. 

 This is the fourth quarter in the last five that Xerox, which has struggled to transform itself from a maker of copiers into a maker of digital printers connected to computer networks, has warned its balance sheets would be weaker than expected. 

 The stock, which closed one year ago at $42-13/16, has since fallen about 71 percent. It traded early Tuesday morning at $12-3/8, down $2-15/16, or 19 percent. 

 Traders said Xerox's 7.15 percent notes maturing August 2004 were bereft of bids Tuesday morning. They were offered at a yield spread of about 310 basis points over Treasuries, compared to 265 on Monday, when they were bid at 300. 

 That compares to a 179 basis point bid on July 25, according to pricing service GovPX, just one day before Xerox's last prior profit warning. 

 Moody's Investors Service last Wednesday cut its senior unsecured debt ratings for Xerox and its Xerox Credit Corp. arm two notches to "Baa2" from "A3." Eight days earlier, Standard & Poor's made a similar cut, to "BBB" from "A-minus." Both agencies said their rating outlooks were stable. 

 SEVERAL SALES ON TAP 

 In the largest corporate bond sale firmly scheduled for this week, Citigroup Inc. , the No. 1 U.S. financial services company, prepared to sell $2.5 billion of 10-year subordinated global notes, an official for lead manager Salomon Smith Barney said Tuesday. 

 The Aa3/A-plus rated notes are expected to yield 147 basis points over Treasuries when Citigroup completes the sale Tuesday or Wednesday. 

 Separately, Boston-based utility company NStar plans to add $200 million of A2/BBB-plus rated notes to an existing 8 percent issue maturing in February 2010. The add-on is expected to yield about 137.5 basis points more than Treasuries. Goldman Sachs & Co. is arranging the sale. 

 In junk bonds, Asia Global Crossing Ltd., a Beverly Hills, Calif.-based unit of Global Crossing Ltd. extending Global Crossing's cable network into Asia, plans to sell $400 million of B2/B-plus rated 10-year notes yielding about 12.75 percent through Chase Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch & Co. 

 Also, CMS Energy Corp. , a Dearborn, Mich.-based utility planning to spin off 50 percent of its stake in CMS Oil & Gas Co. in an initial public offering in first quarter 2001, plans to sell $350 million of seven-year senior notes via Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. and Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter & Co., dealers said. 

 And MainStream PCS Holdings LLC, a Berwyn, Pa.-based wireless provider, plans to sell $300 million of B3 rated 10-year notes yielding 13.25 percent, and carrying 2 to 3 percent warrants, through Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. 

 Meanwhile, the Fed is expected to leave interest rates alone, while repeating its standard warning on inflation, when it issues its statement around 2:15 p.m. (1815 GMT) today. 

 Ten-and 30-year Treasuries fell 5/32 and 6/32, respectively, to yield 5.852 and 5.941 percent in early trade. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa305roq
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Toronto stocks shed gains after Fed warning. 

     By Rajiv Sekhri 
541 words
3 October 2000
22:19
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

     TORONTO, Oct 3 (Reuters) - Toronto stocks pared early gains 

 toward the close on Tuesday as investors sold tech shares and 

 pumped money into blue chips after the U.S. central bank warned 

 of inflation risks and said it saw evidence of a slowing 

 economy. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index 

 closed up 13.56 points, or 0.13 percent, at 10,456.35 after 

 making much stronger gains earlier in the day. More than 156 

 million shares worth C$3.82 billion traded. 

 Toronto stocks ignored a profit warning by Xerox Corp. 

  earlier on Tuesday, climbing more than 170 points at 

 one point. But the market started shedding its gains after the 

 U.S. Federal Reserve issued its inflation warning, although the 

 Fed left interest rates unchanged. 

 "After the Fed made its announcement, I was startled to 

 see it fall apart so near to the close. I had expected stronger 

 techs today," said Kate Warne, a strategist with Edward Jones 

 in St. Louis, Missouri. 

 Analysts said investors fled the high-tech sector for 

 quality shares, which would provide more stable earnings growth 

 in an environment of moderating economic growth. 

 "People are concerned about corporate profits, the U.S. 

 dollar being too strong against the euro, high oil and gas 

 prices impacting inflation," said Irwin Michael, a portfolio 

 manager at ABC Funds. 

     "There is not a lot of impetus to get things going. It's 

 all over the map. It's been a very choppy day," Michael added. 

     Overall, eight of the TSE 300's 14 subindexes closed 

 higher, with the industrial products and metals and minerals 

 sectors leading the way with 1.74 percent and 1.79 percent 

 gains respectively. 

 In the industrial products sector, home of the technology 

 issues, Nortel Networks Corp. , which represents nearly 

 a third of the index, closed up 95 Canadian cents at C$94.05. 

 The stock had been above C$98 at one point. 

 "I think investors continue to think that the tech sector 

 is going to disappoint but we are not seeing any real signs of 

 slowdown in tech stocks," Warne said. 

 "And when people worry they pull money out. In October, 

 when companies start reporting results, there will be more 

 optimism. These worries (about lower-than-expected profits) are 

 unfounded," Warne said. 

     Leading the losers was the consumer products sector, off 

 6.32 percent, weighed down by sagging biotechnology stocks. 


    Biovail Corp.	    was down C$28.85 to close at C$102,



after a research report detailed how a competitor to its



generic version of a hypertension drug would hinder the



company's growth. Pharmaceutical firm QLT Inc. dropped



C$7.50 to C$97.50.



In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average was up



19.61 points points at 10,719.74 but the tech-heavy Nasdaq



composite index fell 113.68 points to close at 3455.22.



"What happened today is that the Nasdaq has broken through



3500. Our feeling was that 3600 was an important level not to



be breached. That doesn't give people comfort," Michael said,



adding that Toronto's decline was in part due to the slide on



Nasdaq.



($1=$1.50 Canadian).


Document lba0000020010821dwa305rhy
?
 

 U.S. stocks seen rising at open, Fed meeting looms. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
747 words
3 October 2000
13:10
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 3 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were seen climbing at the open of trading on Tuesday after a harsh sell-off in the Nasdaq, but a meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers coupled with a quarterly earnings warning from Xerox Corp. threaten to cap gains. 

 "The market is in a little bit desperate shape, we are getting no catalyst to the upside," said Barry Hyman, chief investment strategist at Weatherly Securities. "I would look for the open to be stronger with bargain hunters coming into the semiconductor sector. But it will be a very volatile day." 

 Global sales of semiconductors grew 53 percent to record levels during August, driven by strong Asia-Pacific region growth and booming demand for Internet and communications devices, according to the Semiconductor Industry Association. The report follows rockiness in chip stocks amid fears the semiconductor cycle had hit its peak. 

 But the U.S Federal Reserve policy meeting will grab the spotlight. Wall Street is virtually certain Fed officials will stand pat on interest rates, but will want to see if policy makers still rank inflation risks over the risk of further, possibly sharper, economic slowing. 

 With more than an hour to go to the opening bell, Nasdaq 100 index futures were up 58.50 points at 3,587 while S&P 500 index futures were trading at 1,462.10, up 5.90 points. 

 The latest in a string of quarterly earnings warnings will also keep Wall Street on guard. Xerox warned it will likely to post a third-quarter loss instead of a profit, citing weak revenues in North America and Europe, fierce competition and unfavourable foreign-exchange rates. Xerox ended Monday up 1/4 at $15-5/16 on the New York Stock Exchange but was trading at 12-5/8 before the bell on Instinet. 

 "It's a warning on top of a warning on top of warning," Hyman said. "Xerox is a damaged company at this point, whatever could have gone wrong has gone wrong. Now they are not even making any money." 

 The slower pace of U.S. economic growth and sky-high energy prices, as well as the U.S. dollar's persistent strength against Europe's single currency, the euro, have set off alarm bells because of their potential to crimp profits. 

 Market players will closely examine the accompanying statement issued by the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) for any clues on the state of the economy. 

 A Reuters poll last week found all 29 of the primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed in fixed income markets expect the central bank to leave the overnight bank lending unchanged at 6.50 percent. The FOMC will make its announcement on Tuesday at about 2:15 p.m. (1815 GMT) at the close of its meeting. 

 Tuesday's meeting is the final scheduled meeting before the Nov. 7 U.S. presidential election. Fed officials tend to steer clear of politics and are likely to want to keep a low profile by keeping rates on hold this time around. 

 Also on the calendar, the U.S. Commerce Department's release this week of data on U.S. sales of new homes for the month of August should show a modest decline, economists said. 

 In a Reuters survey, 11 U.S. economists forecast on average a dip to 898,000 units on an annualized basis from July's 944,000 units. 

 European bourses were broadly higher midday Tuesday as the technology sector reversed initial losses but trade was subdued with Germany closed for a public holiday and overnight weakness in the U.S. dampening the tone. 

 On Monday, technology stocks had tumbled as anxieties over declining profit growth plagued the sector in the aftermath of Apple Computer Inc.'s warning of lower-than-expected profits late last week. 

 But blue chip shares rose, bolstered in large part by computer giant International Business Machines Corp. and financial services heavyweight J.P. Morgan & Co.. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 103.92 points, or 2.83 percent, to 3,568.90. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average, meanwhile, finished the session up 49.21 points, or 0.46 percent, at 10,700.13. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index fell a mere 0.28 of a point, or 0.02 percent, to end at 1,436.23. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa305qsb
?
 

 Xerox CEO: 'Bold' Action Required To Change Bus Model 

 By Donna Fuscaldo 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
580 words
3 October 2000
13:38
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Although Xerox Corp. (XRX) had expected the third-quarter to be weak, results will be worse than expected, said Chairman and Chief Executive Paul Allaire. 

 In a conference call to provide further details about the anticipated shortfall, Allaire said that "bold" action is required to change the company's business model. 

 Xerox, which disappointed in past quarters, plans to resize and rescale its business. The transformation will save the company in the billions, Allaire said. 

 President and Chief Operating Officer Anne Mulcahy said a critical factor to Xerox's over haul will be lowering the cost base of products, services and managing the infrastructure. "No stone is being left unturned related to explicative cost-reduction efforts," she said. 

 After the close of trading Monday, battered Xerox warned that it will probably report a third-quarter loss of 15 cents to 20 cents a share. Analysts had expected earnings of 12 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 This is the fourth profit warning in five quarters for the Stamford, Conn., copier giant, whose shares have lost about 57% of their value in the past year. The stock recently traded at $12.50, down $2.81, or 18.4%. 

 Xerox blamed the third-quarter shortfall on weaker than anticipated revenue in North America and Europe, particularly in September, as well as on increased competitive pressure across all businesses and a deteriorating euro. 

 Even though Xerox will report a loss for the third quarter, CEO Allaire said that the company is better off than in the past. The last time Xerox warned was in June for the second quarter. At that time, Xerox cited problems in Mexico related to customer receivables issues, or unpaid bills. 

 Xerox's stock has tumbled in the last year on a series of problems as well as the ouster of then-CEO Rick Thoman in May. Allaire, who replaced Thoman after his corporate restructuring plan failed to turn around the company's plunging stock price, said that in the past it was an issue of not being able to produce a competitive product at all. 

 "We have good technology and that technology can be effectively productized to meet customer requirements to do more, in more of an efficient manner than in the past," he said. Currently the cost of doing business across the board is too high and Xerox will "radically" reduce that, he added. 

 In order to cut costs Xerox plans to dispose of non-strategic assets as well as more effectively utilize assets, said Allaire. The company plans to provide further details when it reports earnings on Oct. 24. 

 Xerox, which has paid a dividend to investors for 211 consecutive quarters, said it will make an announcement on that front later this month as well. 

 Despite the fact that much of the third-quarter shortfall was due to lower sales of high-end products, and was blamed in part on a less-experienced sales force, Xerox does not plan to change the size of its sales force, said Chief Operating Officer Mulcahy. 

 Xerox is not altering the current sales territories, but will focus more on making sure the sales team is filled with skilled people who are far more productive than today, she said. The company will also focus on services and solutions, added Mulcahy. 

 -Donna Fuscaldo; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5253 

Document dj00000020010805dwa303p7t

Search Summary

 Text	((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))
 Date	10/01/2000 to 10/31/2000
 Source	All Sources
 Author	All Authors
 Company	All Companies
 Subject	Corporate/Industrial News
 Industry	All Industries
 Region	United States
 Language	English
 Results Found	237
 Timestamp	27 March 2018 10:22




























•	 Dow closes higher in mixed trading day; Nasdaq,; S&P fall; blue chips beat tech stocks
•	  New Nortel deal brightens Bay St. Caterpillar helps push Dow higher but big-name techs sideswipe Nasdaq 
•	 Tech stocks sink in mixed trading
•	 Xerox shares plunge on  profit warning ; company may be takeover target
•	  STOCKS END DAY MIXED, PULLED DOWN BY TECH SELLOFF 
•	  Markets Earnings Cloud Follows Nasdaq Into 4th Quarter 
•	  PRESS DIGEST - Wall Street Journal - Oct 2. 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-Dresdner cuts DaimlerChrysler estimates. 
•	  Nasdaq hit by Apple aftermath - Dow ends up 49. 
•	  Nasdaq ends down 103.92 on Apple's bad taste - Dow up 49. 
•	 Inamed says stock's  decline  was unwarranted.
•	  WRAPUP-U.S. tech stocks still bitten by Apple - euro falls. 
•	  September Was a Prelude to a Rough October on Wall Street 
•	  Business News Highlights at 4:30 P.M. EDT Monday 
•	 Caterpillar Bounces Back After 3rd-Quarter  Profit Warning
•	  Technology Slide Resumes; Internet Stocks Tumble 
•	  Business News Highlights at 12:30 P.M. EDT Monday 
•	  Stocks Finish Mixed Amid Caution About Corporate Profits 
•	  Magnitude Of Xerox's 3rd Quarter Warning Surprises Some Analysts 
•	  Tower's Sale Of Heavy Truck Rail Operations Seen As Smart Move 
•	  TIP SHEET: Strong Dow 30 Value Fund Upbeat On Boeing 
•	  World markets round-up. 
•	  Stocks mixed in midday trading 
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  Dow Jones industrial average increases 49.21, closing at 10,700.13 
•	 Nasdaq tumbles 
•	  Apple's Warning Takes a Bite Out of Nasdaq 
•	  Nasdaq Ends Down 104; Dow Gains 49 
•	  Stocks end day mixed, pulled down by tech selling 
•	  Stocks mixed in midday trading 
•	  Stocks higher in morning trading 
•	  Stocks end day mixed, pulled down by tech selling 
•	  Stocks end day mixed as tech issues continue to drag 
•	  Stocks end day mixed as tech issues continue to drag 
•	  Stocks mixed in afternoon trading 
•	  Analysts at odds over whether to pick Apple 
•	  WEEK AHEAD-Bear hug to keep S'pore shares from breaking free.  

 

BUSINESS
Dow closes higher in mixed trading day; Nasdaq,; S&P fall; blue chips beat tech stocks

Associated Press   
678 words
3 October 2000
Houston Chronicle
HOU
3 STAR
6
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK - Stock prices were mixed Monday as

investors worried about corporate profits and the moderating economy once again unloaded technology issues.

Blue chips fared somewhat better, but were unable to rally the overall market because of ongoing fears that third-quarter results for many of Wall Street's highest profile and most expensive stocks will be disappointing.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 49.21 at

10,700.13.

Broader indicators were lower.

The Nasdaq composite index fell 103.92 to 3,568.90 after

moving higher earlier in the day. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 0.28 at 1,436.23.

"The volatility is going to stay with us because valuations for stocks aren't cheap, especially in technology," said Rick Jandrain, chief investment officer for equity securities at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. "In 1999 the market was just dominated by technology, and this year it's totally different. The non-tech part of the market is doing better."

The market fell sharply during September amid growing

uneasiness about profits, not just for the third quarter, but also the coming quarters.

Investors are nervous because of increasing indications that the economy is slowing, the latest being an industry report Monday that suggested the nation's manufacturing activity contracted for the second straight month.

The market has fallen into a pattern of selling stocks that appear vulnerable or warn of poor performance. On Monday, that anxiety focused on technology issues, which have traded at especially high levels in recent years.

Chip maker Intel fell $1.44 to $40.13, extending a decline triggered by a profit warning last month. Microsoft was down $1.13 to $59.13, and Web portal Yahoo dropped $4.94 to $86.06. Computer maker Dell dropped $1.56 to $29.25.

But telecom equipment maker Lucent climbed $2.41 to $31 on Monday, as did rival Nortel Networks, which was up $2 at

$62.37.

Gary Kaltbaum, a technical analyst at JWGenesis, said Lucent's popularity with investors Monday only reflects how cheap the stock has become. He believes tech issues, as a sector, remain depressed.

Nontech issues also lagged.

Boeing fell $6.06 to $58.44 after Lehman Bros. downgraded the stock from "outperform" to "neutral."

Xerox warned late Monday after trading that its earnings would be below expectations, an announcement likely to trigger

volatility in its own stock today.

But there also were some upturns. Investors looking for good buys bid Electronic Data Systems up $2.31 to $43.81 after a Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded the stock to "Recommended for Purchase" from "Market Outperformer."

Energy issues were higher on persistent worries about higher oil prices and conflict in the Middle East. Exxon Mobil was up $2.33 at $91.44. Schlumberger rose $2.63 to $84.94.

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 7-to-5 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.24 billion shares, compared with the 1.41 billion in the previous

session.

The Russell 200 index fell 9.70 to 511.67.

The price of a 30-year treasury bond fell point, or

$5.63 per $1,000 in face value. The yield was 5.92 percent, up from 5.88 percent Friday.

In Mexico, the bolsa declined 89.91, or 1.4 percent, to

6,244.65. Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.99 percent. Germany's DAX index was up 0.94 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 slipped 0.15 percent, and France's CAC-40 was up 1.32 percent.

In New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 108.84 yen, up from 108.02 yen. It was quoted at 9.412 pesos, down from

9.434. The peso's value was 10.6247 cents, up from 10.6000 cents. The euro was quoted at 88.00 cents, down from 88.26 cents.

Document HOU0000020120818dwa301st7
 

 

YESTERDAY'S MARKETS
 Report on Business: Money & Markets 
 New Nortel deal brightens Bay St. Caterpillar helps push Dow higher but big-name techs sideswipe Nasdaq 

 RICHARD BLOOM 
582 words
3 October 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B22
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 Bay Street's biggest player, Nortel Networks Corp., helped push Canada's benchmark index into the black as the markets shrugged off interest rate fears and reacted to profit warnings and stock ratings. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300-stock composite index closed 64.87 points higher at 10,442.79. 

 In New York,the Dow Jones industrial average climbed 49.21 points to 10,700.13 as investors geared up for the meeting today of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board's policy-setting committee. Consensus has the Fed leaving interest rates unchanged. 

 Among Dow stocks, construction blue-chip Caterpillar Inc. gained $3.25 (U.S.) to $34.25 despite some negative corporate news. Caterpillar issued a warning after Friday's closing bell, saying its third-quarter profit could be 15 per cent lower than analysts had expected. Before yesterday's opening bell, one brokerage downgraded its investment rating on Caterpillar stock, and another cut its earnings estimate. 

 Boeing Co. was the Dow's biggest loser, falling more than 9 per cent to $58.56 after Lehman Brothers cut its rating on the stock to "neutral" from "outperform." 

 The tech-heavy Nasdaq Stock Market's composite index lost 103.92 points to 3,569.9 as a broad array of big names lost ground, including Intel Corp., Dell Computer Corp., Apple Computer Inc., JDS Uniphase Corp. and Microsoft Corp. 

 Biotechnology firm MedImmune Inc. plummeted 26.5 per cent to $56.75 as two analysts downgraded their ratings on the stock, warning that U.S. sales of its key drug Synagis, could soon start to lag. 

 The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.28 points to 1,436.23. 

 On the Canadian Venture Exchange, the junior high techs pulled the CDNX down 5.54 points to 3,559.71. 

 Nortel Networks was responsible for a large part of Bay Street's boost. The network-equipment supplier, which accounts for 30 per cent of the weighting on the TSE-300, rose $2.75 (Canadian) to $93.10 after signing a 10-year deal worth $1.4-billion (U.S.) with Britain's Cable & Wireless PLC. Under the agreement, Nortel will build and operate the company's global voice-over Internet protocol network. 

 Other techs on the rise included: Research In Motion Ltd., Certicom Corp., Celestica Inc., Com Dev International Ltd. and Mitel Corp. 

 Among those ending lower were JDS Uniphase Corp., Descartes Systems Group Inc., Sierra Wireless Inc. and Ballard Power Systems Inc. 

 Newspaper and book publisher Torstar Corp. advanced $3.25 (Canadian) to $25.25 on speculation it will be the next takeover target in the communications and media sector. Torstar was one of Toronto's most-heavily traded stocks, topping a volume of more than 1.3 million shares. 

 Action in the oil patch enlivened the TSE's oil and gas sector, sending it 2 per cent higher. Investors sold their stock of Gulf Canada Resources Ltd. on news it is acquiring Crestar Energy Inc. Gulf Canada fell 10 per cent to $7.15 while Crestar climbed almost 7.5 per cent to $26.85. 

 New York Odd Lots 

 Odd-lot trades made Friday through the New York Stock Exchange: 


Customer purchases  5,337,719  Short sales  422,034
Other sales         4,673,051  Total sales  5,095,085


Document glob000020010806dwa301bbe
 

 

DBusiness
Tech stocks sink in mixed trading

LISA SINGHANIA; Associated Press   
337 words
3 October 2000
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
MLWK
Final
02
English
Copyright 2000, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Stock prices were mixed Monday as investors concerned about corporate profits and the moderating economy once again unloaded technology issues.

Blue chips fared somewhat better but were unable to rally the overall market because of ongoing fears that third-quarter results for many of Wall Street's highest profile and most expensive stocks will be disappointing.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 49.21 at 10,700.13.

Broader indicators were lower.

The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 103.92 to 3568.90 after moving higher earlier in the day. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 0.28 at 1436.23. The Russell 2000 Index fell 9.70, to 511.67.

Highlights:

Chipmaker Intel fell $1.44, to $40.13, extending a decline triggered by a profit warning last month. Microsoft was down $1.19, to $59.13, and Web portal Yahoo! dropped $4.94, to $86.06. Computer maker Dell dropped $1.56, to $29.25.

But telecom equipment maker Lucent climbed 50 cents, to $31, on Monday, as did rival Nortel Networks, which was up $2 at $62.38.

Some non-tech issues also lagged.

Boeing fell $6.01, to $58.44, after Lehman Brothers downgraded the stock from "outperform" to "neutral."

But there was some positive news.

Investors bid Electronic Data Systems up $2.31, to $43.81, after a Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded the stock to "recommended for purchase" from "market outperformer."

Shares of Merrill Lynch traded higher, up $3.50 at $69.50, on rumors the financial services company might be a possible takeover target.

Energy issues were higher on persistent worries about higher oil prices and conflict in the Middle East. Exxon Mobil was up $2.33 at $91.44. Schlumberger rose $2.63, to $84.94.

Among shares of Wisconsin-based companies, Harley-Davidson Inc. was up $1.31 at $49.19 and Madison Gas & Electric was down $2.25 at $20.50.

Document MLWK000020100320dwa3015rs
 

 

 Xerox shares plunge on  profit warning ; company may be takeover target 

AP
495 words
3 October 2000
17:34
The Canadian Press
CPR
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved. 

 HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) _ Shares of Xerox Corp. plunged nearly 24 per cent Tuesday following the company's warning that it will post a third-quarter loss, badly missing Wall-Street expectations. 

 In midday trading on the New York Stock Exchange, shares were down $3.63 to $11.69 US. 

 The warning by the giant, blue-chip firm _ the fourth one in the last five quarters _ has analysts speculating that the world's largest copier company may be ripe for a takeover. 

 Late Monday, Xerox said it would post a third-quarter loss of somewhere between 15 cents and 20 cents US a share. 

 Analysts expected earnings of 12 cents US per share. In the same period a year ago, Xerox had profits of $339 million US, or 47 cents per share, on revenue of $5.63 billion. 

 ``This is clearly considerably worse than our expectations,'' Xerox chairman and chief executive Paul Allaire said Tuesday. ``Revenue in September was much weaker in both the United States and Europe than we anticipated.'' 

 The Stamford-based business machine company also blamed the problem on the failure to realize expected improvement in sales of its high-end products and increased competitive pressure. 

 Win Murray, an analyst for the Liberty Funds Group of Boston, questioned whether the company would be able to right itself.. 

 ``I really think things have deteriorated to the point where we have to call management's ability to fix it into question. I don't know how to fix it,'' he said. ``Up until this announcement, we were continuing to hope that operational fixes could be put into place such that earnings could rebound.'' 

 At this point, it would be ``extremely difficult'' for Xerox to resist a takeover if one were pursued, he added. 

 One possible buyer is Fuji, said Murray, who speculated that because Xerox's joint venture with Fuji is one of its most valuable assets, it would be ``pretty simple for Fuji to buy Xerox's interest.'' 

 Xerox's third-quarter outlook is just the latest piece of bad news for the company, which has been in an economic tailspin. 

 A botched sales force reorganization has alienated customers and its stock price has plummeted to one-third of its value a year ago. 

 In the second quarter, earnings fell 68 per cent from the previous period due reportedly to accounting irregularities in its Mexico subsidiary and a decline in revenues for certain products. 

 Net income was $145 million US, or 19 cents per share, compared with $448 million, or 62 cents per share in the same period a year ago. That included a charge of $78 million, or 11 cents per share, to cover problems associated with its Mexican operation. 

 Allaire, who took the helm of the company when it fired Rick Thoman in May, has said that more drastic action will be taken in an effort to turn things around. 

Document cpr0000020010804dwa300zro
 

 Business 
 STOCKS END DAY MIXED, PULLED DOWN BY TECH SELLOFF 

 LISA SINGHANIA, Associated Press writer 
544 words
3 October 2000
The Columbian
CLBN
E2
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 NEW YORK  -- Stock prices were mixed Monday as investors worried about corporate profits and the moderating economy once again unloaded technology issues. 

 Blue chips fared somewhat better, but were unable to rally the overall market because of ongoing fears that third-quarter results for many of Wall Street's highest profile and most expensive stocks will be disappointing. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 49.21 at 10,700.13. 

 Broader indicators were lower. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 103.92 to 3,568.90 after moving higher earlier in the day. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 0.28 at 1,436.23. 

 "The volatility is going to stay with us because valuations for stocks aren't cheap, especially in technology," said Rick Jandrain, chief investment officer for equity securities at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. "In 1999, the market was just dominated by technology and this year it's totally different. The nontech part of the market is doing better." 

 The market fell sharply during September amid growing uneasiness about profits, not just for the third quarter, but also the coming quarters. 

 The market has fallen into a pattern of selling stocks that appear vulnerable or warn of poor performance. On Monday, that anxiety focused on technology issues, which have traded at especially high levels in recent years. 

 Chipmaker Intel fell $1.44 to $40.13, extending a decline triggered by a profit warning last month. Microsoft was down $1.13 to $59.13 and Web portal Yahoo! dropped $4.94 to $86.06. Computer maker Dell dropped $1.56 to $29.25. 

 But telecom equipment maker Lucent climbed $2.44 to $31 on Monday, as did rival Nortel Networks, which was up $2.25 at $62.38. 

 Nontech issues also lagged. 

 Boeing fell $4.69 to $58.44 after Lehman Brothers downgraded the stock from "outperform" to "neutral." 

 Xerox warned late Monday after trading that its earnings would be below expectations, an announcement likely to trigger volatility in its own stock Tuesday. 

 But there was some positive news. 

 Investors looking for good buys Monday bid Electronic Data Systems up $2.31 to $43.81 after a Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded the stock to "Recommended for Purchase" from "Market Outperformer." 

 Meat processor IBP rose $3.44 at $21.75 on news it was being acquired by the investment unit of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette for $2.4 billion in cash. 

 Shares of Merrill Lynch traded higher, up $3.50 at $69.50 on rumors the financial services company might be a possible target for a takeover. 

 Energy issues were higher on persistent worries about higher oil prices and conflict in the Middle East. Exxon Mobil was up $2.31 at $91.44. Schlumberger rose $2.63 to $84.94. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 7-to-5 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 770.96 million shares, compared to 786.10 million in the previous session. 

 The Russell 200 index fell 9.70 to 511.67. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.99 percent. Germany's DAX index was up 0.94 percent. 

Document clbn000020010804dwa300ddr
 

 

 Business; Financial Desk 
 Markets Earnings Cloud Follows Nasdaq Into 4th Quarter 

From Times Staff and Wire Reports
536 words
3 October 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 The fourth quarter got off to a rocky start Monday with the Nasdaq composite index tumbling to its lowest level in four months as earnings worries continued to dog the stock market. 

 The tech-heavy Nasdaq slid 103.92 points to close at 3,568.90--a loss of almost 3%--with losers outnumbering gainers by almost 2 to 1. It was Nasdaq's seventh loss in the past eight trading sessions. The index is now down 12.3% this year. 

 "There are earnings concerns out there," said Barry Hyman, chief investment strategist at Weatherly Securities. He said the market is not going to get much upward momentum until there are "decent earnings reports coming in the tech sector." 

 But Xerox, the dominant U.S. maker of copier machines, just deepened the gloom after regular trading ended: The firm said it expects to post a loss in the third quarter. In after-hours trading, Xerox plunged $2.94 to $13 a share. 

 Blue chips had fared better Monday in regular trading. The Dow industrial average closed up 49.21 points at 10,700.13. The Standard & Poor's 500 index eased slightly. Losers outnumbered winners 4 to 3 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 "The volatility is going to stay with us because valuations for stocks aren't cheap, especially in technology," said Rick Jandrain, chief investment officer for equity securities at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. "In 1999, the market was just dominated by technology and this year it's totally different." 

 The market fell sharply in September amid growing uneasiness about profits. 

 Investors are nervous because of increasing indications that the economy is slowing, the latest being an industry report Monday that suggested that the nation's manufacturing activity contracted for the second straight month. 

 In the tech sector, chip maker Intel fell $1.44 to $40.13 on Monday, extending a steep decline triggered by a profit warning last month. Also, Microsoft was down $1.19 to $59.13 after trading at a 52-week low of $58.25. 

 Internet stocks were hard hit. Yahoo dropped $4.94 to $86.06, Vertical.net slid $4.75 to $30.38, Goto.com fell $2.50 to $14 and DoubleClick sank $2.38 to $29.63. 

 But telecom equipment maker Lucent climbed $2.44 to $31, as did rival Nortel Networks, which was up $2 at $62.38. 

 However, Gary Kaltbaum, a technical analyst at JWGenesis, said he believes tech issues, as a sector, will remain depressed. 

 "When you have names like Intel and Dell and Microsoft under pressure, you can't expect much," he said. "I think it goes back to when market favorites and leaders are under pressure, the soldiers that fall behind them can't do so well." 

 But as investors fled tech stocks, they bought in such sectors as banking, energy, utilities and HMO stocks on Monday. Also, mutual-fund management firm Waddell & Reed surged $4.19 to $35.19 after saying it has been in merger talks. 

 Market Roundup: C13, C14 

 GRAPHIC-CHART: Daily Diary, Monday, Oct. 2, 2000; 

Document latm000020010808dwa301zk5
 

 

 PRESS DIGEST - Wall Street Journal - Oct 2. 

483 words
2 October 2000
08:01
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 2 (Reuters) - The following stories were reported in the electronic version of The Wall Street Journal early Monday: 

 *Federal regulators are investigating another brand of Firestone tyres, used on Ford and GM sport-utility vehicles, pickups and vans. Separately, Goodyear is developing and testing tyres on the expectation that it will snare a part of the business to supply Ford's next generation of Explorers. 

 *Equifax will spin off to shareholders its credit-card and check processing business, in a bid to boost its stock and to simplify its structure for investors. 

 *Apple Computer's shares plunged 52 percent following Thursday's profit warning. Some analysts concluded that Apple is continuing to lose ground in its educational segment. 

 *Stocks skidded Friday after a profit warning from Apple Computer reignited earnings jitters on the last trading day of the quarter. The Dow industrials shed 173.14 points, or 1.6 percent, to 10650.92. The Nasdaq composite tumbled 105.57, or 2.8 percent, to 3672.75. 

 *Boeing awarded its top officials 1.14 million shares valued at about $70 million when an incentive plan was triggered by the firm's soaring stock price. 

 *Consumer spending grew 0.6 percent in August, outstripping the 0.4 percent rise in personal income. As a result, the savings rate hit a new low of negative 0.4 percent. 

 *Star Scientific is introducing in parts of Virginia and Kentucky a cigarette that contains lower levels of cancerous chemicals than regular cigarettes. 

 *FleetBoston agreed to buy Summit for $7 billion in stock, beefing up its Northeastern franchise by gaining the No. 1 market share in New Jersey. 

 *ASM Lithography agreed to buy U.S. rival Silicon Valley Group for $1.6 billion in stock, creating the leading provider of lithography equipment to the chip industry. 

 *UAL said it expects to report a loss for the third quarter and "probably" one for the fourth period, after a summer of cancellations and labour strife. 

 *Europe agreed to delay sanctions against the U.S. in an export-subsidy dispute until after the U.S. elections in November. 

 *Mattel confirmed it is selling Learning Co. to Gores Technology for no cash up front, although Mattel will get a cut of any future Learning earnings. 

 *Aventis agreed to pay for a multimillion-dollar government effort to keep its variety of genetically modified corn from tainting the U.S. food supply. 

 *Intel said it cancelled plans for a new low-cost computer chip. Separately, computer makers said Intel also is delaying the introduction of its next-generation processor, the Pentium 4. 

 *EU officials vowed to improve the decision-making process for euro countries after Denmark rejected adopting the common currency. 

 *Amtrak is expected to consolidate its mail and express business into a new unit in an effort to accelerate partnerships with other freight railroads. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa2061iu
 

 

 RESEARCH ALERT-Dresdner cuts DaimlerChrysler estimates. 

292 words
2 October 2000
17:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 DETROIT, Oct 2 (Reuters) - Dresdner Kleinwort Benson Securities analyst David Garrity on Monday cut his 2000 and 2001 earnings estimate for German-U.S. automaker DaimlerChrysler AG because of "fundamental problems" with its Chrysler unit. 

 - He said in a research report that he cut his 2000 estimate to $4.27 a share from $5.64, and lowered his 2001 estimate to $4.18 a share from $5.89. He also maintained a "hold" rating on the stock. 

 - Garrity said the company at an analysts' meeting in Paris "revealed a grim picture for 2001 as Chrysler, debis Financial Services and the Commercial Vehicles business segment will all be under pressure." 

 - He said the comments follow DaimlerChrysler's warning that operating profit for 2000 would drop 30 percent and Chrysler would incur its first quarterly operating loss since 1991. He said Chrysler's costly model changeovers will continue in 2001 as no less than three models will be launched in the next five months. 

 - Garrity said debis is "caught in the cross-fire," as discounting on new vehicles undermines the residual value of leased vehicles, leading to a possible one-time catch-up charge. He cut projected operating margins for financial services by 100 basis points to 3.5 percent in 2001, and second-half 2000 operating margins could dip even further. 

 - He said he is concerned longer term about the ability of Chrysler to spring back to strong operating margins it enjoyed in the mid-1990s as heightened competition in key market segments has steadily eroded operating margins. He added that management departures, including the impending exit of top Chrysler designer Tom Gale, may leave Chrysler without the innovative leadership that served it well in the past. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa205v6i
 

 

 Nasdaq hit by Apple aftermath - Dow ends up 49. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
884 words
2 October 2000
22:01
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 2 (Reuters) - Technology stocks tumbled on Monday as angst over declining profit growth plagued the sector in the aftermath of Apple Computer Inc.'s warning of lower-than-expected profits late last week. 

 "Lowered expectations for the whole economy does put a crimp in technology and emerging growth companies' growth prospects," said Scott Bleier, chief investment strategist at Prime Charter Ltd. 

 But blue chip shares rose, bolstered in large part by computer giant International Business Machines Corp. and financial services heavyweight J.P. Morgan & Co. 

 The technology-dominated Nasdaq Composite Index fell 103.92 points, or 2.83 percent, to 3,568.90, its lowest close since May 31, based on the latest available figures. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average, meanwhile, finished the session up 49.21 points, or 0.46 percent, at 10,700.13. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index fell a mere 0.28 of a point, or 0.02 percent, to end at 1,436.23. 

 In addition to mounting anxiety about corporate profits, investors also stayed cautious ahead of the Federal Reserve's meeting on Tuesday. The Fed is expected to leave interest rates unchanged. 

 Apple's confession of weaker-than-expected earnings, made late last Thursday after the closing bell on the regular stock trading session, put it among a slew of companies cutting their earnings or revenue forecasts in recent weeks. Among those leading the parade of bad news was the world's No. 1 computer chip maker, Intel Corp. That has cast a dark cloud over Wall Street. 

 On Monday, after the close of trading, copier machine heavyweight Xerox Corp. said it was likely to post a loss of 15 to 20 cents a share in the third quarter, citing weak revenues in North America and Europe, competitive pressures and foreign-exchange rates. 

 Xerox ended Monday's session up 1/4 at $15-5/16. 

 Prospects for an easier pace of U.S. economic growth and sky-high energy prices, as well as the U.S. dollar's persistent strength against Europe's single currency, the euro, have set off alarm bells because of their potential to crimp profits. 

 "It takes some of the edge off," Bleier said, referring to slower economic growth. "Money managers decide that valuations need to be managed lower along, with expectations." 

 Biotechnology and Internet stocks led the charge into negative territory. 

 The Nasdaq's Biotechnology Index ended the session down 6.29 percent, pulled down by stocks of companies like Amgen which fell $4-5/64 to $65-3/4. 

 The Nasdaq Internet Index dropped 3.05 percent, led by Internet media company Yahoo! Inc., which fell $4-15/16 to $86-1/16. 

 "There are earnings concerns out there," said Barry Hyman, chief investment strategist at Weatherly Securities. He said the market is not going to get much upward momentum until there are "decent earnings reports coming in the tech sector." 

 The high-tech sector had its bright spots, and blue-chip computer titan IBM helped buoy the Dow with a gain of $5-5/16 to $117-13/16 amid talk of upgrades of its servers, computers that run networks of other computers. 

 J.P. Morgan also added heft to the blue-chip Dow, as shares of the financial services firm climbed $5-1/8 to $168-1/2. 

 Oil services shares also shone as the price of crude oil crept higher once again, stoked by renewed tensions in the Mideast and concerns over a thin supply of heating oil. 

 The American Stock Exchange's Oil Index climbed 1.57 percent, while Exxon Mobil Corp., a Dow component, rose $2-5/16 to $91-7/16. 

 But the Dow's gains were capped by weakness in many of its high-tech members. Computer maker Hewlett-Packard Co. fell $3-3/16 to $93-13/16. 

 Intel Corp., the world's No. 1 computer chip maker, and software giant Microsoft Corp. fell, putting pressure on the Nasdaq and the Dow. Intel lost $1-7/16 to $40-1/8, while Microsoft dropped $1-3/16 to $59-1/8. 

 Aerospace giant Boeing Co. also capped the Dow's advance, as its shares sank almost 7 percent following a downgrade by Lehman Brothers to "neutral" from "outperform" amid concern over its loss of a major aircraft order. Boeing lost $4-3/8 to $58-5/8. 

 Caterpillar Inc., meanwhile, eased to a new 52-week low of $31-9/16 at the open, after an announcement late Friday by the global heavy equipment maker that it expected its third-quarter profits to fall short of Wall Street forecasts. 

 But its shares rebounded to end the session up 7/16 at $34-3/16. 

 Investors were gearing up for Tuesday's meeting of the Federal Reserve, although the U.S. central bank is widely expected to leave interest rates unchanged ahead of the Nov. 7 U.S. presidential elections. 

 Analysts said the markets will be looking to see if the Fed will signal that its recent cycle of interest-rate raising is at an end. 

 The view of Wall Street's primary dealers is that the Fed will leave interest rates unchanged. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa205oda
 

 

 Nasdaq ends down 103.92 on Apple's bad taste - Dow up 49. 

651 words
2 October 2000
21:40
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 2 (Reuters) - The Nasdaq composite index slid almost 3 percent on Monday to its lowest close in four months as technology shares remained in a slump after Apple Computer's profit warning last week, while the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average finished with a modest gain. 

 Tech shares remained under September's bearish mood, inspired by worries over the ability of U.S. companies' ability to grow earnings at a fast enough clip to support stock prices. That mood darkened considerably after Apple warned about its about earnings late last week. 

 The Nasdaq composite fell 103.92 points, or 2.83 percent, to end at 3,568.90, its lowest close since May 31 and near its low of the day, based on the latest available figures. 

 Biotech, software, computer-chip and Internet issues led the way down. 

 In contrast, the Dow Jones Industrial average added 49.21 points, or 0.46 percent, to end at 10,700.13. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index spent most of the morning higher, then slipped through the afternoon to just under the unchanged mark, down 0.28 of a point, or 0.02 percent, to 1,436.23. 

 "There's some enthusiasm coming in ... people see this as a new month, but so far once again the market is exhibiting the same characteristics (of September)," said Barry Hyman, chief investment strategist at Weatherly Securities. 

 Apple failed to bounce higher Monday after falling last week to $25-3/5 from just over $52 per share. In Monday's action, Apple stock dropped $1-1/2, or 5.8 percent, to $24-1/4, a low unseen since July 1999. 

 Nasdaq breadth was negative, with losers ahead of gainers by a ratio of about 2 to 1, while New York Stock Exchange losers were ahead of gainers by 4 to 3. 

 The Morgan Stanley high-tech index also closed at a low unseen since late May, dropping nearly 1 percent, and the American Stock Exchange Internet index tumbled 3 percent. 

 Depressing the Dow was Boeing Co., off $4-3/8, ornearly 7 percent, to $58-5/8. The aerospace giant fell after Lehman Bros. downgraded the shares to "neutral" from "outperform," based on the loss of a major order from Singapore Airlines Ltd. and on Boeing shares being "fully valued on aggressive (earnings per share) estimates." 

 Leading biotech names lower was MedImmune Inc., which finished with a 26.5 percent loss, or down $20-1/2, to end at $56-3/4. The drop came amid jitters about the company's potential sales of Synagis, a drug for the prevention of a common lower respiratory tract disease in children, and after an analyst cut his earnings estimates. 

 A Banc of America analyst cut his earnings estimate for MedImmune to 75 cents per share from 86 cents for 2001, and to 98 cents from $1.15 for 2002. He also cut his estimates for U.S. Synagis sales in the 2000-2001 and 2001-2002 seasons. 

 Intel Corp. and Microsoft Corp., both heavyweights traded on Nasdaq and both among the 30 stocks that make up the Dow average, ended lower. Intel shed $1-7/16 to $40-1/8, and Microsoft lost $1-3/16 to $59-1/8. 

 Merger news in the financial sector sparked activity in those shares. FleetBoston Financial Corp. slipped 1.6 percent, or 5/8, to $38-3/8, after it confirmed a $6.8 billion takeover of New Jersey-based Summit Bancorp. But Summit, the target, added $3-5/8 to $38-1/8. 

 Under an agreement, each Summit share would be exchanged for 1.02 shares of Fleet, valuing Summit's stock at $39.78 per share, based on Friday's closing stock price on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa205o8l
 

 

 Inamed says stock's  decline  was unwarranted. 

117 words
2 October 2000
14:21
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SANTA BARBARA, Calif., Oct 2 (Reuters) - Breast implant maker Inamed Corp. on Monday said the decline in its stock price on Friday was unwarranted and appeared to be due to a profit warning by another breast implant maker, Mentor Corp. 

 Inamed said its breast implant sales grew about 11 percent for the first nine months of the year. It said investors showed "misplaced anxiety" when they connected Mentor's projections with Inamed's potential results. 

 Last Thursday, Mentor said its revenues and earnings for the current quarter would be "relatively flat." 

 Shares of Inamed slumped $5, or about 15 percent, to a closing price of $28-1/8 on Friday. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa205o4v
 

 

 WRAPUP-U.S. tech stocks still bitten by Apple - euro falls. 

986 words
2 October 2000
23:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 2 (Reuters) - U.S. technology stocks slid on Monday, still showing the effects of getting bitten by Apple Computer Inc.'s profit warning late last week, while the euro slipped against the dollar amid signs of an economic slowdown in Europe. 

 "There are earnings concerns out there," said Barry Hyman, chief investment strategist at Weatherly Securities. He said the market is not going to get much upward momentum until there are "decent earnings reports coming in the tech sector." 

 Xerox Corp., the dominant U.S. maker of copier machines whose name and trademark have become almost a synonym for the word "photocopy," said on Monday after the closing bell on the regular stock trading session that it expects to post a loss. 

 U.S. blue-chip stocks ended modestly higher. In New York, crude oil futures for November delivery settled above $32 a barrel, driven by renewed Mideast tensions amid continuing concerns over the thin supply of heating oil. 

 U.S. Treasury bond prices fell, with some of the decline linked by traders and analysts to inflation anxieties raised by higher oil prices. 

 On Tuesday, the Federal Reserve's policy-makers will meet to determine the future direction of U.S. interest rates. The prevailing view is that the Fed will leave rates alone. But analysts and investors will be poring over the Fed's statement in an effort to learn whether the Fed is done with its current cycle of raising interest rates. 

 The technology-dominated Nasdaq Composite Index fell 103.92 points, or 2.83 percent, to 3,568.90, its lowest close since May 31, based on the latest available figures. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average, meanwhile, finished the session up 49.21 points, or 0.46 percent, at 10,700.13. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index fell a mere 0.28 of a point, or 0.02 percent, to end at 1,436.23. 

 Apple's confession of weaker-than-expected earnings, made late last Thursday after the closing bell on the regular stock trading session, put it among a slew of companies cutting their earnings or revenue forecasts in recent weeks. Among those leading the parade of bad news was the world's No. 1 computer chip maker, Intel Corp., which made its confession late in the previous week. That has cast a dark cloud over Wall Street. 

 Apple fell $1-1/2 to close at $24-1/4, while Intel lost $1-7/16 to end at $40-1/8. Intel, one of the biggest names to trade on the Nasdaq, also is one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow average. So Intel's slippage helped keep a lid on the Dow's gains on Monday. 

 The litany of bad earnings news continued on Monday, with Xerox saying it expects to post a loss of 15 to 20 cents a share in the third quarter, citing weak revenues in North America and Europe, competitive pressures and foreign-exchange rates. 

 Xerox had ended Monday's session up 1/4 at $15-5/16 on the NYSE, before the company's warning. 

 The high-tech sector, however, had its bright spots. Blue-chip computer titan International Business Machines Corp. helped buoy the Dow with a gain of $5-5/16 to $117-13/16 amid talk of upgrades of its servers, computers that run networks of other computers. 

 J.P. Morgan & Co., another one of the Dow 30 stocks, helped the blue-chip average. J.P. Morgan, one of the last of the blueblood banking giants, rose $5-1/8 to $168-1/2. 

 Oil services shares also advanced as the price of crude oil kept climbing. The American Stock Exchange's Oil Index shot up 1.57 percent. Exxon Mobil Corp., the leading publicly traded oil company and a Dow component, rose $2-5/16 to $91-7/16. 

 In the U.S. Treasury bond market, the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note fell 5/32, pushing its yield up to 5.83 percent from 5.81 percent at Friday's close. The 30-year bond dropped 19/32, or $5.9375 for each $1,000 of face value. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, rose to 5.93 percent from 5.89 percent late on Friday. 

 In late U.S. currency trading, the euro slipped to 87.71 cents from 88.37 cents at Friday's close. The threat of intervention by the world's major central banks limited the euro's decline on Monday, as it has since the surprise intervention on Sept. 22. But early Monday, a report on the purchasing managers index for the euro zone showed it fell more than expected in September while its prices index jumped. 

 The dollar edged up to 108.89 against the Japanese yen from 108.05 yen on Friday. In Japan, trading nerves were on edge ahead of the release Tuesday of the Bank of Japan's quarterly tankan survey. A Reuters poll of 19 economists, conducted on Sunday, showed most expected Japan's tankan report to show business sentiment has improved, but at a slower pace. 

 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for November delivery rose $1.34 to settle at $32.18 a barrel. 

 In London, the blue-chip FTSE 100 index slipped 9.7 points, or 0.15 percent, to end at 6,284.5. 

 In Tokyo, the benchmark Nikkei 225 average surged 155.25 points, or 0.99 percent, to close at 15,902.51, its session high. Gains in such major names as Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp. and its mobile phone unit NTT DoCoMo helped offset recent concerns about Wall Street that were set off last week by Apple Computer's profit warning. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa205nzw
 

 September Was a Prelude to a Rough October on Wall Street 

 Lisa Singhania 
831 words
2 October 2000
Jersey
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 NEW YORK--Investors who were looking forward to the end of September -- and hoping a new month would bring new fortunes to Wall Street -- are likely to be disappointed. 

 The same culprits that pulled the market lower in September, including anxiety about corporate profits, high energy prices and currency woes in Europe, are going to be around for a while. 

 Add to that the actual release of third-quarter results and growing misgivings about the future, and Wall Street's September volatility is likely to continue. 

 "What the market has to come to grips with is that there will be . . . earnings disappointments this quarter, during the fourth quarter and maybe even the first quarter of next year," said Charles Pradilla, chief investment strategist at S.G. Cowen Securities. 

 "This is not a one-quarter phenomenon. The euro is still tanking . . . and with an economic slowdown under way, there's every possibility we're going to see a fourth- quarter disappointment." 

 Yet despite that bleak outlook, there's still optimism on Wall Street. 

 "I think that October again will prove to be a turning point, as it has the last few years," said Brian Belski, a fundamental market strategist with US Bancorp PiperJaffrey. "I think corporate profits will be better than most expected." 

 Historically, October has been a tough month for investors. Three of the biggest market drops in recent history -- 1987, 1989 and 1997 -- occurred then. 

 Although there's no reason to expect a similar drop this October, the numbers going into the month show a market struggling to find its footing. The major indices and averages all ended September lower after spiking upward in August. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 5 percent for the month, the Nasdaq composite index dropped 12.7 percent and the Standard & Poor's 500 index slipped 5.4 percent. 

 There were several catalysts for this latest decline. 

 First, the market has been anxious, unsure of how slowing economic growth will affect corporate earnings. As a result, stock prices have fluctuated, with investors unloading companies that warned of earnings disappointments and rewarding those that met expectations. 

 Technology issues, the driving force behind much of the market's stellar gains in recent years, have especially been singled out. Investors bid Apple Computer down by more than 50 percent Friday after it warned of earnings below expectations. Chipmaker Intel lagged for most of the week, although its profit warning came Sept. 21. 

 Then there's the matter of the presidential election -- neither candidate has a convincing lead, creating uncertainty about future tax and economic policies. 

 Energy prices are also a concern. The price of a barrel of oil shot up to around $38 in mid-September, prompting many companies to warn that higher energy costs would hurt their profits. Higher fuel costs could also prompt consumers to limit their spending. 

 Finally, persistent weakness in the euro, Europe's chief currency, has U.S. companies with international businesses worried about deflated earnings. 

 But a lot can change in a month, analysts say, pointing to some shifts already happening. 

 The price of a barrel of oil closed near $31 Friday, and analysts say it could drop more if the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries makes good on promises to increase supply. 

 The euro continues to flounder, but analysts believe European government intervention to support the currency could help end its slide. 

 The key adjustments that analysts hope to see in October may be a little more difficult. 

 Belski, the US Bancorp Piper Jaffray analyst, believes many investors were so thrilled with profits the past few years that they are overreacting to more moderate but still healthy, growth. "The market definitely needs a reality check," he said. 

 John Shaughnessy, chief investment strategist at Advest, said third-quarter earnings may help the market move on. He's optimistic they will be better than expected, and that the market will calm down and even turn around in November. 

 "The ingredients for a solid rally, I believe, are in place," Shaughnessy said. "It's just a question of how long it takes them to manifest. I think it will be a couple of weeks at least." 

 This past week, the Dow fell 196.45, closing at 10,650.92 on a 173.14-point loss Friday. 

 The Nasdaq dropped 130.94 after falling 105.50 Friday to 3,672.82. 

 The S&P 500 was off 12.21 for the week, after slipping 21.78 Friday to 1,436.51. 

 The Russell 2000 index, which reflects the performance of smaller company stocks, finished the week up 2.55, despite falling 2.44 Friday to close at 521.37. 

 The Wilshire Associates Equity Index -- which represents the combined market value of NYSE, American and Nasdaq issues -- ended the week at 13.613 trillion, off $65 billion from last week. A year ago, the index was $11.7 billion. 

Document krtbn00020010807dwa201t9v
 

 

 Business News Highlights at 4:30 P.M. EDT Monday 

671 words
2 October 2000
21:30
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Stocks turned in a mixed performance Monday as persistent caution about third-quarter earnings restrained the market and dragged down the Nasdaq Composite Index. But blue chips managed to close higher. 

 Bonds fell. The 10-year Treasury note lost more than 1/8 point, or $1.25 for each $1,000 holding, bringing the yield up to 5.82%. The 30-year bond was down 5/8 to yield 5.93%. 

 The dollar rose. It traded at 87.79 cents to the euro and 108.89 yen to the dollar, compared with 88.18 cents to the euro and 108.21 yen to the dollar late Friday in New York. 

 The Nasdaq composite plunged 103.80, or 2.8%, to 3569.02, erasing early gains, after falling 105.50 in the previous session. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 49.21, or 0.5%, at 10700.13, after dropping 173.14 Friday. 

 The Internet and biotechnology sectors dragged down the market Monday. MedImmune, one of the most active stocks on the Nasdaq market, tumbled $20.50, or 27%, to $56.75 by 4 p.m. EDT after Banc of America Securities downgraded the stock to "market performer" from "buy." 

 Computer stocks closed mixed after being hit Friday following a profitwarning from Apple Computer. Shares of Apple, which dropped 52% Friday, lost another $1.50 to $24.25. Dell Computer and Hewlett-Packard fell, but Gateway, Compaq Computer and IBM rose. 

 The market showed pockets of strength outside the technology sector, with banking, automobile and energy stocks showing gains. The Dow Jones Utility Average added 3.25, or 0.8%, to close at 401.47, setting its second consecutive record. 

 Stocks of oil producers rose, boosted by a rally in oil prices, amid news that European countries won't tap their emergency reserves, and renewed tension between Iraq and Kuwait. Dow component Exxon Mobil gained $2.33 to $91.44 

 But Boeing held back the industrial average, falling $4.63 to $58.38. Lehman Brothers cut its rating on the aerospace company to "neutral" from "outperform," based on its high stock price and the impact of Singapore Airlines' order last week from rival Airbus Industrie. 

 --- 

 The president of Japan's Bridgestone Corp. said he will ask for the resignation of Bridgestone/Firestone chief executive Masatoshi Ono, the man in charge of the mass recall of Firestone tires in the U.S. 

 "To start with, we will renew Bridgestone/Firestone's top management and the company's organizational structure," Bridgestone President Yoichiro Kaizaki told Nikkei Business, a Japanese business magazine. "'We will let Mr. Ono go," he was quoted as saying. 

 Mr. Kaizaki in September told The Asian Wall Street Journal that he was considering changing senior management at Bridgestone/Firestone, but declined to comment on which executives might be replaced. In the Nikkei Business interview, published Friday, he went a step further by confirming that Mr. Ono would leave his post. 

 A Bridgestone spokesman didn't dispute the published version of the interview, but said Mr. Kaizaki didn't say "directly" that Mr. Ono would be asked to leave. 

 --- 

 Gulf Canada Resources agreed to buy Crestar Energy for about 1.7 billion Canadian dollars (US$1.13 billion) in a combination of two Canadian energy exploration and production companies. 

 The purchase will make Gulf Canada one of North America`s top 10 energy producers with a substantial presence in the natural-gas market at a time when prices and demand are strong. 

 --- 

 Merck said the FDA has approved Fosamax for men with osteoporosis. 

 Fosamax, which logged more than $1 billion in sales last year primarily for the treatment of osteoporosis in women, is the first medicine to be indicated for men with osteoporosis, Merck said. 

 Osteoporosis, a disease in which bones become fragile and prone to fractures, is often regarded as a women's disease. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwa201jrg
 

 

 Caterpillar Bounces Back After 3rd-Quarter  Profit Warning 

451 words
2 October 2000
19:16
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Shares of Caterpillar Inc., which fell sharply in after- hours trading Friday after the firm issued a third-quarter profit warning, bounced back Monday as investors noticed that the company had maintained its upbeat outlook for the full year, according to analysts. 

 After the market closed Friday, Caterpillar, the leading maker of heavy machinery, warned third-quarter earnings will come in about 15% below analysts' expectations, hurt by surging fuel costs and weakness in the construction and mining industries. 

 Caterpillar (CAT) shares had ended 4 p.m. EDT trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange at $33.75, up 3.6% for the day. After the warning, however, Caterpillar shares sank in after-hours trading. 

 But shares ended Monday's 4 p.m. trading session at $34.19, erasing the post-warning decline. 

 Caterpillar reaffirmed on Friday its full-year outlook, which calls for earnings to be 8% to 15% above 1999's $2.63 a share. 

 Some analysts are cutting their 2000 estimates, bringing projections to the lower end of the company's guidance for the year. Others, such as PaineWebber Inc.'s David Bleustein, also are cutting 2001 views. 

 However, investors are paying more attention to Caterpillar's outlook rather than to analysts' interpretations, accounting for the stock's rise on Monday, Mr. Bleustein said. On Monday, he downgraded Caterpillar to "neutral" from "attractive," saying the fourth quarter is also at risk. He also noted that a 10-cent reduction in quarterly earnings for Caterpillar isn't that significant. 

 The analyst cut his 2000 estimate to $2.85 a share from $3 a share and his 2001 view to $3 a share from $3.30 a share. 

 Alexander Blanton of Ingalls & Snyder also said investors aren't paying much attention to the near-term earnings for Caterpillar. "This is the dominant company in the business and (investors) buy it for the longer term," said Mr. Blanton, who has a "buy" rating on the stock. "No one will take away their market share." 

 Furthermore, he said, the stock was already cheap. 

 Caterpillar said Friday that continued softness in the North American construction and global mining industries and weakness in the market for truck engines had taken a toll. To help mitigate the impact of the slowdown, Caterpillar said it is "redoubling" its efforts to cut costs. 

 Caterpillar has been steadily losing market share in North America to rivals Deere & Co. and Japan's Komatsu Ltd.  The company plans to release third-quarter results on Oct. 17. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwa201jq2
 

 

 Technology Slide Resumes; Internet Stocks Tumble 

 By Danielle Sessa 
1,179 words
2 October 2000
17:39
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WSJ.com 

 NEW YORK -- 

 Technology shares shifted into reverse Monday, after idling in neutral early in the session. Pressure on Internet stocks spread to other sectors as semiconductors relinquished slight gains and backtracked into negative territory. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 103.92, or 2.8%, to close at 3568.90, while Morgan Stanley's high-tech index lost 8.88 to 942.33. The Dow Jones Internet Index slipped 14.01, or 4.9%, to 272.90. 

 Concerns about corporate profits were still the main issue holding back investors from rallying the market. Earnings season doesn't shift into gear until next week and there's still time for companies to issue negative preannoncements. (After the close of trading Monday, Xerox issued a profit warning.) 

 Net Stocks Fall 

 Internet stocks was the first group to fall Monday. As the session wore on, the losses mounted and dragged down the overall tech sector. 

 Priceline.com plunged $1, or 10%, to $10.88 at 4 p.m. on the Nasdaq Stock Market amid a consumer protection investigation by the Connecticut attorney general into the company's airline-ticket and gasoline name-your-own-price programs. 

 Internet business-to-business stocks also took a pounding. I2 Technologies dropped $17.12 to $169.88 on Nasdaq. The head of technology sales left the Internet B-to-B company for a private B-to-B software concern. Market leaders Ariba and Commerce One, also traded sharply lower. Ariba declined $16.81 to $127.06 and Commerce One fell $5.94 to $72.31 on Nasdaq. 

 Other big-name Net stocks to tumble included Yahoo!, which sank $4.94 to $86.06; Amazon.com, which slid $2.31 to $35.88; and eBay, which dropped $1.81 to $66.88, all on Nasdaq. 

 In other Monday activity, investors declined to nibble at shares of Apple Computer even after the computer maker lost more than half its value on Friday following an earnings warning. Apple dropped $1.50 to $24.25 on Nasdaq. 

 Other PC stocks, which fell in sympathy with Apple the previous session, were mixed in choppy trading Monday: Dell Computer shed $1.56 to $29.25 on Nasdaq, while Gateway climbed $2.02 to $48.77 and Compaq Computer added 71 cents to $28.29 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Chips Near Year Lows 

 Semiconductor stocks continued their zig-zag path during the third quarter. Since the group peaked in March, its been a bump ride for investors. During the period, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor Index posted a wider loss than the broader market, pulling back 11%. 

 Chip demand has shown signs of letting up, but some analysts advise that it's too early to call a top to the current semiconductor growth cycle and that patience will pay off. 

 "We caution investors not to make a similar mistake as in mid-1993, when a slowdown during that summer caused people to prematurely call the cycle and miss a 153% rise in the SOX [Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor Index] over the 18 months," said Charlie Glavin, Credit Suisse First Boston analyst. "Hence our motto for 2001 is 'squatters rule.' " 

 Chip stocks were mixed Monday as the sector tried to bounce off levels near their low for the year. The SOX fell 18 to 833. Intel eased $1.44 to $40.13 and Applied Materials retreated $2.63 to $55.06 on Nasdaq. 

 Third-Quarter Troubles Still Loom 

 Investors were happy to get the third quarter over and done with on Friday. The Nasdaq lost 7.4% during the period, which was capped off with several high profile earnings warnings. Intel, Sprint, Apple and Priceline all told investors that their latest quarterly results would miss Wall Street expectations. As a result, the stocks severely suffered for their impending shortfalls and added to concern about slowing corporate profits. 

 In addition, worries grew stronger about how the weak European currency and rising oil prices would affect U.S. companies. Personal-computer and semiconductor demand at home and overseas showed signs of slowing. 

 However, with preannouncement season almost over, some Wall Street observers are hoping that the most of the bad news is out and the market can settle into a foundation -- and maybe climb to close out the year. 

 "If the peak in oil prices is behind us; if the worst is over for the euro; if most of the bad news is out -- then the U.S. stock market could very well have a decent fourth quarter," said Jeffrey Applegate, Lehman Brothers market strategist, in a report. "We think that it will." 

 Despite the several high-profile preannouncements, and the stocks' subsequent punishments by investors, the number of warnings isn't out of line with previous quarters. Roughly 70% of the preannouncements have been negative, the same level as the average of the last six quarters, according to Mr. Applegate. 

 Elsewhere, Silicon Valley Group jumped $7.38 to $33.69 on Nasdaq. ASM Lithography of the Netherlands agreed to buy the company for $1.6 billion in stock, creating the leading provider of lithography equipment to the chip industry. American depositary receipts of ASM lost $2.44 to $29.88 on Nasdaq. 

 Nortel Networks rose $2.44 to $62 on the New York Stock Exchange. Cable & Wireless said it chose Nortel for a $1.4 billion contract to set up and operate a voice-over-Internet backbone network. 

 WebMD lost 31 cents to $14.94 on Nasdaq. Banc of America cut its investment rating on the online health-information site to "market perform" from buy." The stock surged over 25% during the pervious two sessions after the company said it would eliminate 1,100 jobs and consolidate operations after closing three significant acquisitions. 

 International Business Machines surged $5.31 to $117.81 on the Big Board in anticipation that Big Blue will announce Tuesday the launch of its new G7 line of mainframes and will also rebrand the server group. Analysts expect the new line of mainframes, called Freeway, will have a positive effect for the stock in the fourth quarter. 

 BroadVision dropped $3.88 to $21.81 on Nasdaq. Robinson-Humphrey analyst William Chappell issue a report Monday that said earnings warnings and a shift in demand caused by a drop-off in dot-com customers have created turmoil for e-business software companies that will weigh on valuations until possibly next year. He reduced his rating on BroadVision stock to "neutral" from "outperform." Mr. Chappell also said BroadVision has been "caught off-guard" by the increasing popularity of Java-based technology. 

 MKS Instruments fell $4.38 to $23 on Nasdaq. The company agreed to acquire Applied Science & Technology for about $301 million in stock. Both companies make systems and components for the chip-making industry. Applied Science & Technology was up $2.50 to $17.25 on Nasdaq. 

 --- 

 Write to Danielle Sessa at danielle.sessa@wsj.com 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwa201jpj
 

 

 Business News Highlights at 12:30 P.M. EDT Monday 

583 words
2 October 2000
17:39
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Stocks turned mixed at midday Monday, with blue chips higher amid selective buying following Friday's heavy losses. But persistent caution about earnings restrained the Nasdaq Composite Index. 

 Bonds fell. The 10-year Treasury note was down 1/4 point, or $2.50 for each $1,000 holding, bringing the yield up to 5.83%. The 30-year bond was down more than 1/2 to yield 5.92%. 

 The dollar rose. It traded at 87.91 cents to the euro and 108.81 yen to the dollar, compared with 88.18 cents to the euro and 108.21 yen to the dollar late Friday in New York. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 61 points to 10712 at noon EDT, after dropping 173.14 Friday. The Nasdaq Composite Index slipped 7.50 to 3665.30, returning early gains, after falling 105.50 in the previous session. 

 Semiconductor stocks made some gains Monday, rebounding from Friday's drubbing. But computer stocks were mixed after being hit Friday following a profit warning from Apple Computer. Shares of Apple, which dropped 52% Friday, edged down 56 cents to $25.19 Monday. Other computer makers were mixed Monday, with IBM up $6.06 to $118.56, helping to prop up the Dow industrial average. 

 But Boeing held back the industrial average, falling $4.63 to $58.38. Lehman Brothers cut its rating on the aerospace company to "neutral" from "outperform," based on its high stock price and the impact of Singapore Airlines' order last week from rival Airbus Industries. 

 --- 

 After four straight monthly declines, construction spending jumped in August, powered by increased government activity. Spending on new office buildings, roads and other major public works projects rose 1.4% to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $794.5 billion, the Commerce Department announced. It was the strongest increase since a 1.7% jump in March. 

 Separately, manufacturing activity contracted for the second straight month in September, an industry group said, yet another indication that the economy is cooling down. The National Association of Purchasing Managers said its production index rose to 49.9 in September from 49.5 in August. 

 The NAPM index uses 50 as a break-even point, with anything above signaling economic growth and anything below indicating contraction. September's number was slightly below Wall Street's expectations of 50. 

 --- 

 Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette agreed to aquire IBP for $2.4 billion, plus the assumption of about $1.4 billion in debt. IBP is a leading supplier of beef and pork products, as well as consumer-ready foods. The deal involves Rawhide Holdings, a unit of Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette's DLJ Merchant Banking Partners III L.P. 

 --- 

 Wal-Mart Stores outlined an aggressive expansion plan that includes converting many existing discount stores to supercenters, a format that has proven popular with customers. 

 The world's largest retailer said it will open 40 new discount stores and 170 to 180 supercenters during the fiscal year that begins Feb. 1, 2001. The supercenters sell groceries as well as dry goods. The expansion will add about 40 million square feet of new retail space in 2001, an 8% increase over fiscal 2000. 

 --- 

 Gold was fixed Monday afternoon in London at $273.10 an ounce, down $1.20 from the morning fixing and down 55 cents from Friday afternoon's fixing. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwa201jpf
 

 

 Stocks Finish Mixed Amid Caution About Corporate Profits 

 By David Runk 
1,218 words
2 October 2000
14:47
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WSJ.com 

 NEW YORK -- Stocks finished mixed Monday as persistent caution about third-quarter earnings dragged down the Nasdaq Composite Index by 2.8% and restrained the broader market. But blue chips posted mild gains, managing a rebound from the previous session's losses. 

 The Nasdaq composite plunged 103.92 to 3568.90, extending Friday's 105.50-point drop. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 49.21 points, or 0.5%, at 10700.13, after dropping 173.14 in the previous session. 

 Other major indexes finished mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.28 to 1436.23, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index gained 3.33 to 666.37, and the Russell 2000 Index of small-capitalization stocks gave back 9.70, or 1.9%, to 511.67. 

 Wall Street had a strong opening, but trading soon became choppy as investors were hesitant to return to the market without solid evidence about third-quarter corporate results, due later this month. The industrial average maintained some strength throughout most of the day, while the Nasdaq composite plunged further in the afternoon as investors were tentative about keeping money in the beleaguered technology sector. 

 Peter Coolidge, a senior equity trader at Brean Murray, said bargain-hunting propped up the industrial average Monday. But the slowing U.S. economy, the weak euro and high energy prices have left investors edgy about the earnings outlook. He said the Nasdaq composite was feeling a "hangover effect" from Friday's drop. 

 "There are some jitters on Wall Street that October is going to be volatile, but after September, it seems maybe October will be more stable," Mr. Coolidge said. "Attention is going to focus toward third-quarter earnings, but we're sort of in a dead period now. We're not going to get those [reports] right away." 

 The market is coming off a rough September, following a stellar performance in August. The Nasdaq composite sank nearly 13% last month, erasing August's 11.7% gain. The industrial average fell 5% in September, after rising 6.7% the previous month. 

 The Internet and biotechnology sectors weighed on the market Monday, with the Nasdaq biotech index closing down 6.3% and the Dow Jones Composite Internet Index dropping 4.9%. MedImmune (MEDI), one of the most active stocks on the Nasdaq market, tumbled $20.50, or 27%, to $56.75 by 4 p.m. EDT after Banc of America Securities downgraded the biotech firm's stock to "market performer" from "buy." 

 Computer stocks closed mixed after being hit Friday following a profitwarning from Apple Computer. Shares of Apple (AAPL), which dropped 52% Friday, lost another $1.38 to $24.38. Dell Computer (DELL) and Hewlett-Packard (HWP) fell, but Gateway (GTW), Compaq Computer (CPQ) and International Business Machines (IBM) rose. IBM added $5.31 to $117.81, helping to prop up the industrial average. 

 Wall Street saw pockets of strength outside the technology sector, with banking, automobile and energy stocks showing gains. The Dow Jones Utility Average added 3.25, or 0.8%, to 401.47, setting its second consecutive record close. 

 Stocks of oil producers rose, boosted by a rally in oil prices, amid news that European countries won't tap their emergency reserves, and renewed tension between Iraq and Kuwait. Dow component Exxon Mobil (XOM) gained $2.31 to $91.44, while Chevron (CHV) and Texaco (TX) also climbed. 

 In merger news, Silicon Valley Group (SVGI) rose $7.38, or 28%, to $33.69 after ASM Lithography (ASML) of the Netherlands agreed to buy its U.S. rival for $1.6 billion in stock, creating the leading provider of lithography equipment to the semiconductor industry. Shares of ASM in the U.S. fell $2.44 to $29.88. 

 Meanwhile, Summit Bancorp (SUB) rose $3.63 to $38.13 after FleetBoston Financial agreed to buy the bank for $7 billion in stock, a move seen as beefing up FleetBoston's franchise in the Northeast. FleetBoston (FBF) fell 63 cents to $38.38. 

 But the market began the fourth quarter with fresh earnings warnings on the table. After the market closed Monday, Xerox (XRX) said it expects to post a third-quarter loss, blaming much lower-than-expected revenue in North America and Europe, the weak euro, and tough competition. Before the warning, Xerox shares closed up 25 cents at $15.31. 

 Shares of Dow component Caterpillar finished up 44 cents to $34.19, overcoming weakness during the day, after the heavy-equipment maker warned late Friday that third-quarter earnings would be lower than many analysts had expected. 

 Boeing (BA) held back the industrial average, falling $4.38 to $58.63. Lehman Brothers cut its rating on the aerospace company to "neutral" from "outperform," based on its stock price and the impact of Singapore Airlines' order last week from rival Airbus Industrie. 

 Alan Ackerman, executive vice president and market strategist at Fahnestock & Co., said buyers remain selective amid concerns about how the weak euro and high energy prices will impact corporate earnings reports due this month. Investors are taking a "show-me" attitude about third-quarter earnings, he said. 

 "I'm looking for the market to attempt to shake off the coils of earnings disappointments as we come head-to-head with the third-quarter earnings reporting season," Mr. Ackerman said. "We've seen more earnings pre-announcements than expected, but on the other hand, the earnings flow for the third quarter is expected to be mostly encouraging." 

 In economic data Monday, the National Association of Purchasing Managers reported manufacturing activity contracted for the second straight month in September, another indication that U.S. economic growth is cooling. But the Commerce Department said construction spending in the U.S. rose a greater-than-expected 1.4% in August. 

 The data come ahead of Tuesday's meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers, when the central bank widely is expected to leave interest rates unchanged. The Fed has kept rates steady since an aggressive half-percentage point increase in May, which capped a nearly year-long string of increases in an effort to slow the economy and prevent inflation. 

 Outside the U.S., European shares finished mostly higher amid gains in energy and telecommunications stocks. In the Asian-Pacific region, markets closed lower, although shares in Japan and Indonesia rose. Hong Kong markets were closed for a holiday. 

 In major U.S. market action: 

 Stocks closed mixed. On the Big Board, where 1.02 billion shares traded, 1,643 stocks declined and 1,262 advanced. On the Nasdaq market, 1.75 billion shares traded hands. 

 Bonds mostly fell. The 10-year Treasury note lost more than 1/8 point, or $1.25 for each $1,000 holding, bringing the yield up to 5.82%. The 30-year bond dropped nearly 5/8 to yield 5.92%. 

 The dollar rose. It traded at 87.81 cents to the euro and 108.85 yen to the dollar, compared with 88.18 cents to the euro and 108.21 yen to the dollar late Friday in New York. 

 --- 

 Write to David Runk at david.runk@wsj.com 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwa201jmw
 

 

 Magnitude Of Xerox's 3rd Quarter Warning Surprises Some Analysts 

 By Pat Maio 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
744 words
2 October 2000
23:54
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LOS ANGELES -(Dow Jones)- Xerox Corp.'s (XRX) bombshell that it will likely report a third-quarter loss of 15 cents to 20 cents a share was more severe than some analysts expected. 

 "I was surprised by the extent of the miss. Even if they couldn't meet the Street's estimate, I thought they would still have some profit" for the quarter, said Caroline Sabbagha, an analyst with Lehman Brothers Inc. 

 This is the fourth profit warning in five quarters for the Stamford, Conn., copier giant, which has lost more than half its market share, or $20.4 billion, in the past year. 

 Analysts expected Xerox to report 12 cents a share in earnings for its third quarter, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 "They've warned us before, so it's not entirely unexpected," said Bruce J. Raabe, an analyst with Collins & Co. in San Francisco. 

 Goldman Sachs & Co. analyst Jack Kelly noted, "The top line weakness is fairly pervasive both geographically, in North America and in Europe, and particularly in September." 

 "This could indicate that economic activity isn't as strong as we all thought," said Kelly, pointing to recent profit warnings issued by Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) and DuPont Co. (DD), both components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, and others. 

 In regular trading Monday, Xerox shares rose 31 cents, or 2%, to $15.31 on volume of 3.5 million shares, compared with average daily volume of 5.3 million. 

 But Xerox made its announcement after the market closed Monday, sending its stock down to $12.56 in after-hours trading. 

 Xerox said its revenue was much weaker than anticipated in North America and Europe, particularly in September. "The expected improvement in high-end sales did not occur. Additionally, increased competitive pressures across all businesses and European currency deterioration are expected to have a further negative effect on gross margins," the company said. 

 "These factors are compounded by higher bad-debt provisions and increased investments required to resolve customer administration issues," the company added. 

 "Clearly, actions beyond resolving our operational issues are required, including major cost reductions, asset dispositions and a review of the dividend level. Aggressive actions to improve profitability in 2001 are being pursued," said Paul Allaire, chairman and chief executive, and Anne Mulcahy, president and chief operating officer, in a joint statement. 

 Several analysts contacted privately said they are worried that the 20-cent a share dividend for the outstanding common will be either cut drastically or eliminated. 

 "You don't bring up a gun unless you use it," said one analyst suggesting the company's streak of 211 consecutive quarters of paying a dividend may now be in jeopardy. 

 Xerox executives Allaire and Mulcahy will provide more details Tuesday at 8:30 a.m. EDT in a telephone conference call with Wall Street analysts, a Xerox spokeswoman said. 

 The company also said Monday it will address its plans to restore shareholder value in more detail when it announces third quarter earnings later this month. 

 Xerox's last earnings warning came in June for the second quarter. 

 Then, it cited problems in Mexico related to customer receivables issues, or unpaid bills. The company also revealed in June that the Securities and Exchange Commission had launched a probe of the Mexican situation. 

 Xerox shares have lost about two-thirds of their value in the last year on a number of problems, including a failed reorganization that led to the ouster in May of its former CEO, Rick Thoman. 

 Thoman was hired in 1997 as president and chief operating officer, and then promoted to CEO in April 1999. Before joining Xerox, he had been chief financial officer of International Business Machines Corp. (IBM). 

 After his promotion in 1999, Thoman implemented a corporate restructuring plan that failed to increase the company's sagging stock price. 

 Shares of Xerox have plunged nearly 70% since peaking at just over $51 a share almost a year ago. 

 After Thoman was dismissed on May 11, Xerox chairman Allaire returned to his former position as chief executive. 

 While the company has been rumored as a takeover target, analysts say such speculation is doubtful until it fixes its internal problems and shrinks its mountain of $18 billion in debt. 

 -By Pat Maio, Dow Jones Newswires; 323-658-3776; 

 patrick.maio@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010805dwa203otx
 

 

 Tower's Sale Of Heavy Truck Rail Operations Seen As Smart Move 

 By Jocelyn Parker 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
300 words
2 October 2000
23:47
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 DETROIT -(Dow Jones)- Tower Automotive Inc.'s (TWR) decision to sell its heavy truck rail manufacturing business was a smart move given the declining heavy truck market, said Credit Lyonnais Securities analyst Charles Brady. 

 "It's not core to their long-term strategy," Brady said. "They want to be more focused on the light vehicle market." 

 On Monday, Tower said it had signed an agreement to sell its heavy truck rail manufacturing business in Roanoke, Va., for $55 million to the company's joint venture partner Metalsa S. de R.L., based in Mexico. 

 Analysts say the heavy truck market has been on a steady decline because of a surplus in new and used heavy trucks and a shortage of drivers. 

 The company also said Monday that it will reduce capacity and consolidate related support activities. This includes discontinuing operations at its Kalamazoo, Mich., stamping plant. 

 The company said this is expected to impact fewer than 800 Tower employees. 

 In addition, the company issued a profit warning for the third quarter. Tower said it expects third-quarter earnings to be in the range of 20 cents to 25 cents a share. The shortfall is mostly attributed to production cuts at Ford Motor Co. (F), continued heavy truck product sales decline, new product launches and schedule disruptions. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial estimated that Tower would earn 42 cents a share in the third quarter. 

 Brady said the profit warning was not shocking given the climate of the auto supplier industry, which has been suffering from such issues as production cuts at Ford, currency exchange problems and the declining heavy-truck market. 

 -Jocelyn Parker, Dow Jones Newswires; 313-963-7810 

Document dj00000020010805dwa203oto
 

 

 TIP SHEET: Strong Dow 30 Value Fund Upbeat On Boeing 

 By Sonoko Setaishi 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
701 words
2 October 2000
20:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- If one analyst after another raises earnings estimates on a company, that company must have a lot going for it. 

 That's partly why fund manager Charles Carlson is convinced Boeing Co. (BA) has more upside, even after the stock's tremendous runup in the last six months. 

 Carlson's $147 million Strong Dow 30 Value Fund can invest only in the 30 stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. As of Friday, the fund was down 5.1% for the year to date, compared with a 7.4% decline for the blue-chip index. 

 Besides Boeing, overweighted stocks in the fund include Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP), Citigroup Inc. (C), Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), Merck & Co. (MRK), Philip Morris Co. (MO) and General Motors Corp. (GM). 

 And the underweighted ones? Coca Cola Co. (KO), Eastman Kodak Co. (EK), DuPont Co. (DD), Walt Disney Co. (DIS), Procter & Gamble Co. (PG), Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) and Caterpillar Inc. (CAT), among others. 

 Strong Dow 30 Value has been overweight on Boeing for at least 12 months. As of June 30, it had 3.71% of its assets in the world's largest plane maker, above the neutral 3.33% weighting. 

 "In a market environment where I think investors are a little thin on good investment ideas, Boeing (fills) that need," says Carlson, who has been co-managing the fund since December 1997. 

 The sheer number of recent upward revisions by analysts on Boeing is "a very bullish sign," he says. Last week alone, at least four analysts raised their profit estimates, target prices or overall recommendations on the Seattle company. 

 By Friday, Boeing was expected to earn $2.66 a share in 2000, up 7.7% from a July 1 projection, and $3.36 in 2001, up 13%, according to a survey of 18 analysts by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 What's more, the company has seen "an awful lot of margin expansion" thanks mostly to improvements at its flagship commercial aircraft division, Carlson notes. 

 Boeing earned $2.31 billion last year on sales of $57.99 billion, for a profit margin of 4%. 

 "I think people would love to see 5%," Carlson says. "I think that's certainly doable." 


                Revenue Growth Is Key



The outlook for another of Boeing's businesses - aerospace - is
brightening quickly, he says. There's "increasing realization that this
down cycle in aerospace isn't going to be lasting nearly as long as
everybody thought."



And presidential candidates George W. Bush and Al Gore have indicated
that they are committed to increasing defense spending.



Although Carlson doesn't like putting target prices on companies he
invests in, "it does appear the next level (for Boeing) would be
somewhere around $65 to $70," he says.



After soaring to an all-time high of $66.94 Tuesday, the stock
recently traded at $58.25, up from a 52-week low of $32 in March.



Carlson does have a few concerns about Boeing. If the company becomes
"overly aggressive" in acquisitions, he says, that could derail its
streamlining efforts and may cause "digestion headaches."



Boeing's recently approved $3.75 billion purchase of Hughes
Electronics Corp.'s satellite-making operations "probably needs watching
to see how they assimilate that business," Carlson says.



Besides the number of forecast revisions by analysts, Carlson, like
many of his peers, pays close attention to revenue growth.



Companies can generate profits in various ways, like cutting costs,
selling assets and investing, he says, but "the revenue number is really
what's separated the good from the not great."



Eastman Kodak had "poor" revenue growth in its latest quarter, Carlson
says, while "Procter & Gamble really had trouble with its volume
growth."



Another obvious no-no: earnings disappointments. "We generally have
not been willing to hang in there with companies that disappoint on a
regular basis," Carlson says.



He "fortunately" moved to an underweight position on Eastman Kodak
before its Tuesday third-quarter profit warning battered the stock 25%
in one day.



- Sonoko Setaishi, Dow Jones Newswires, 201-938-4148;
sonoko.setaishi@.dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010805dwa203o8v
 

 World markets round-up. 

212 words
2 October 2000
Diario de Noticias
DDNO
English
(c) 2000

 Apple's profit warning issued after Wall Street closed on Thursday shocked the markets. The company said Q4 profits would be 33% lower than expected as a result of poor sales figures in all its markets. 

 The market, which had been rising on a 3.3% rise in the NASDAQ, immediately began to fall. 

 The main stocks to suffer were in the retail, chemicals, banking, oil and media sectors. Telecoms and technology stocks, with the exception of France's Alcatel, resisted the downward pressure. 

 However, investors have cause to be worried. Several large companies, including Intel, Kodak, Lexmark and Guess? have cut their profit forecasts. 

 Rumours that Credit Suisse was about to launch a profit warning pushed the bank's stock down 6%. In spite of the bank denying that it was going to issue a warning, other financial institutions like Deutsche Bank and UBS were also affected. 

 Denmark's rejection of the euro made the markets nervous, but analysts said the markets would, in the short term at least, be dominated by worries about corporate profits, high oil prices, the fall in the value of the euro and the cooling down of the world economy as a result of increased interest rates. 

 [Original article approx 400 words] 

Document ddno000020010805dwa2000oo
 

 

 Stocks mixed in midday trading 

517 words
2 October 2000
19:25
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stock prices were mixed Monday amid bargain hunting after last week's big selloff. 

 The market started the day off in positive territory, but by afternoon it appeared that concerns about corporate profits were once again limiting gains. 

 In afternoon trading on Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 23.13 at 10,674.05. 

 But broader indicators were lower. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 94.85 to 3,577.97 after moving higher earlier in the day. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 4.15 at 1,432.36. 

 "There's not a lot going on right now, but the tone isn't that bad," said Rick Jandrain, chief investment officer for equity securities at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. "We've already discounted some of earnings surprises on the downside, so once we get into earnings reports this week, I don't think things are going to be too bad." 

 Investors were cautious as they awaited the release of third-quarter earnings reports later this month. They again sold off stocks of companies that warned of disappointing results. 

 Warnaco was down $1.63 to $2.38 - a loss of 40 percent - on published reports its profits would fall below Wall Street expectations. 

 The market fell sharply during September amid growing uneasiness about profits, not just for the third quarter, but also the coming quarters. Reaction to a profit warning from Apple Computer sent the Dow down 173 points and the Nasdaq 105 points on Friday. 

 But investors were looking for good buys Monday, and they bid Electronic Data Systems up $2.13 to $43.63 after a Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded the stock to "Recommended for Purchase" from "Market Outperformer." 

 Meat processor IBP was up $3.31 at $21.63 on news it was being acquired by the investment unit of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette for $2.4 billion in cash. 

 Shares of Merrill Lynch traded higher, up $1.69 at $67.69 on rumors the financial services company might be a possible target for a takeover. J.P. Morgan was also up $3.56 at $167.31. 

 Investors took a mixed view of technology issues. 

 Lucent climbed $1.88 to $30.44, Nortel Networks was up $1.19 at $61.31 and IBM rose $2.56 to $117.31. 

 But chipmaker Intel fell $1.44 to $40.13; Microsoft was down $1.81 to $58.50. And Web portal Yahoo! dropped $5.63 to $85.38. 

 Energy issues were higher on persistent worries about higher oil prices and conflict in the Middle East. Exxon Mobil was up $2.06 at $91.19. Schlumber rose $2.25 to $84.56. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a narrow margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 653.48 million shares, compared to 659.22 million in the previous session. 

 The Russell 200 index fell 8.09 to 513.28. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010804dwa200xx2
 

 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,636 words
2 October 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 PAUL KANGAS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: A split decision on Wall Street as investors wait and wonder about tomorrow`s Federal Reserve meeting on interest rates.  The Dow gains 49 points; while the NASDAQ Index loses almost 104.  Good evening.  I`m Paul Kangas in Miami. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Susie Gharib in New York City.  Another big-name tech company warns Wall Street about lowered earnings.  We`ll tell you why Xerox (XRX) is having problems. Then, this micro-turbine produces clean, cheap power.  We have a report from the company that makes it, promising it can help lower energy costs. 

 GHARIB: Good evening, everyone.  Our top story tonight: Xerox.  It stunned Wall Street with another earnings warning.  After the bell today, Xerox announced its second earnings warning since July, its fifth warning in the last 12 months.  It now expects a 15- to 20-cent loss in the third quarter. Analysts were looking for a profit of 12 cents.  It blames weakness in the euro and increased competition.  Xerox stock closed at $15.31, but in after-hours trading, it got as low as $12. That is a new 52-week low. Xerox calls the results, quote, "disappointing and unacceptable," and says aggressive action is needed to improve profitability. 

 Well, it was also a difficult day for other tech stocks.  The NASDAQ lost 104 points, or 3 percent.  The Dow gained only 50.  The focus today on Wall Street was about, tomorrow, that important meeting of the Federal Reserve. Here`s Scott Gurvey with a preview. 

 SCOTT GURVEY, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: The Federal Reserve has a way of generating unease on Wall Street, but this time around, peace and calm seem to be the order of the day.  A Bridge poll of 21 economists predicts the odds of a rate hike at tomorrow`s meeting are only 6 percent. And 20 of the 21 expect the Fed to, once again, state that economic risk still points to higher inflation.  That kind of near unanimity is just what Wall Street likes to hear, even if the news causes some concern for long-term prospects.  And even that concern has been somewhat muted in recent weeks as economic data showing some signs of slowing have surfaced.  So there are a few Fed watchers who think the Fed may change its assessment. 

 DAVID JONES, CHIEF ECONOMIST, AUBREY G. LANSTON: In a sense, what I would say is we`re in roughly equal balance, if you look at the risk to good economic performance.  And it`s possible the Fed will say that, that there is roughly an equal balance between risks on the upside of higher inflation, and risks on the downside of undesirable weakness in economic growth. 

 GURVEY: For the Fed to actually consider a rate cut, economists say it would have to see a rise in unemployment, slow growth in consumer spending, and a weakening housing market.  None of those have become apparent, yet. For now, the experts say they expect Wall Street to pay little attention to the Fed;  and instead,  put its collective mind to analyzing upcoming earnings reports. 

 TRACY EICHLER, INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, PAINEWEBBER: I think we`re putting too much emphasis on the whole day-to-day, month-to-month economic data that`s released.  I think that, you know,  the one thing that drives the markets is earnings, and more so than ever, especially here in the third quarter.  I think more investors are concerned with the earnings than with what the Fed`s going to do tomorrow. 

 GURVEY: This will be the last Fed meeting before the election, and the Central bankers will have to consider changes in fiscal policy proposals of the winner as they plan their next monetary policy moves.  Scott Gurvey, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York. 

 KANGAS: Stocks on Wall Street opened with a very modest technical rally in the wake of last Friday`s broad sell-off, as buyers showed caution ahead of tomorrow`s Fed meeting, and the specter of still more disappointing corporate earnings announcements.  At 10:00 a.m., the Dow Industrial Average recouped only 19 1/2 points of Friday`s 173-point tumble; while the NASDAQ Index got back just 23 1/2 points of Friday`s 105-point decline. Good strength in IBM (IBM), General Motors (GM), ExxonMobil (XOM) and J.P. Morgan (JPM) overcame a six-point drop in Boeing (BA) stock after Lehman Brothers downgraded it from "outperform" to "neutral."  So at noontime, the Dow managed to post a 63 2/3-point gain, but weakness in the tech sector pushed the NASDAQ Index to a 7 1/2-point loss.  Persistent selling in the technology bellwether stocks - like Intel (INTC), Microsoft (MSFT) and Sun Microsystems (SUNW) - dragged the NASDAQ market down for the rest of the afternoon, and it trimmed the closing gain in the Dow Industrial Average to 49.21 points putting it at 10,700.13.  In today`s 90-point trading range, the Dow closed down 21 points from the best level of the session; up 69 points from the low of the day.  The NASDAQ Composite ended with a loss of 103.92 points at 3568.90.  In its 155-point trading range, the Composite Index settled 145 points below its best level of the day. 

 Big board volume just over one billion shares.  Down a bit from last Friday.  And up volume exceeded down volume by almost a 5 to 4 ratio. 

 The Dow Transport Index losing 57.22. 

 But the Utility Index hit a record high again, up 3 1/4 points exactly. 

 The Closing Tick slightly bearish at -204. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 off a little over 1/4 point. 

 But the 100 up nearly 3 1/2 points. 

 MidCap 400 fell just over 7 1/2 points. 

 Bridge Futures Price Index down .39. 

 New York Stock Exchange Composite up 3 1/3 points. 

 But the Value Line down 4.44. 

 Russell2000 Small Cap Index dropped nearly 9 3/4 points. 

 And the Wilshire 5000 Broadly-Based Index down just over 91 points. 

 KANGAS: The bond market edged lower today on news that the Purchasing Managers September Index of Manufacturing Activity rose a bit, while August Construction Spending increased 1.4 percent.  That was the first rise in four months.  The sell-off was cushioned, however, by safe-haven buying prompted by the steep sell-off in NASDAQ stocks. 

 Tax free and corporates lost only about 1/8-point on average. 

 And the Treasury market did end mixed. 

 Actually a little gain of 1/32 in the 5-year note. 

 But the 10-year note dropping 4/32, with the yield at 5.82 percent. 

 30-year bond dropped 18/32 

 And the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index fell 7.18. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. 

 Susie? 

 GHARIB: Paul, FleetBoston Financial (FBF) is reaching for the Summit (SUB). At a news conference in New York City today, FleetBoston announced it will pay $7 billion, or about $40 a share, for Summit Bancorp.  This expands its franchise in the Northeast, especially New Jersey, where Summit is a powerhouse.  FleetBoston has been on the acquisition trail for the last few years, and its CEO says that the bank`s expansion plans are not over yet. 

 TERRENCE MURRAY, CHAIRMAN & CEO, FLEETBOSTON FINANCIAL: I see dramatic expansion for specialized businesses in the next three or four or five years.  We`ll continue to expand our bank franchise in the Northeast and little market fillers.  But I`d say the major expansion would be in non- traditional banking franchises, some of the things we`ve done a lot of in the last two years. 

 GHARIB:  One of the reasons that FleetBoston is keen on Summit is because it has the number one market share in New Jersey, one of the country`s wealthiest and most densely populated states. 

 Paul? 

 KANGAS: The major presidential candidates have spent the day sharpening strategies for tomorrow night`s debate.  With polls showing the race very close, both sides will be trying to reach a relatively small group of so-called, "swing" voters who may hold the keys to the White House.  As our coverage on "The Road to the White House" continues, Darren Gersh looks at how those voters` views on the economy have changed over the years. 

 DARREN GERSH, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Martin Guitars are sought after by stars like Willie Nelson, Eric Clapton and Sting. But it`s the workers in the Martin factory in Nazareth, Pennsylvania who are the stars in this election.  Many are undecided voters,  like Joanne Moyer. The economy is good here, so good that unemployment is almost non-existent. But that doesn`t mean Moyer is confident about the future. She wants the next president to focus on issues like Social Security and Medicare. 

 JOANNE MOYER, UNDECIDED VOTER: I would rather have them take care of other things, so when I do reach that age of retirement, I`m better - you know, I`m better off.  I don`t want to be eating cat food you know when I`m old. 

 GERSH: Just a few work benches away, James Miller is another undecided voter.  He`s also thinking long term. 

 JAMES MILLER, UNDECIDED VOTER: When I was a young man, I didn`t think about Social Security; but now that I`m getting closer to that age, you think more and more about it all the time. 

 GERSH: Martin Guitar has made his home in Pennsylvania`s Lehigh Valley for more than 150 years.  The Lehigh Valley is also home to one of the largest groups of undecided voters in the country.  It`s these so-called swing voters who political analysts say will ultimately decide the presidential election.  Which is why both presidential campaigns are hoping their economic message will strike the right cord with voters here. 

 The good times have carried over to Mivajo`s diner across the street from the Martin plant.  Owner,  Joe Duarte says he, too, is having trouble making up his mind in this election, but he makes it clear he is interested in tax relief. 

 JOE DUARTE, OWNER, MIVAJO`S: Small business owner works 90 hours a week, to survive; and a quarter of it goes to the government.  So I don`t think it`s fair. 

 GERSH: The steel jobs that once fueled the Lehigh Valley economy are long gone, replaced with high tech jobs and long-distance commuters. Bill Brackbill sees signs of the new prosperity every day as president of the Nazareth area Chamber of Commerce. He`s amazed at the size and price of the new homes sprouting on old corn fields. And with the influx of new families, the Lehigh Valley now has a new problem, growth. 

 BILL BRACKBILL, PRESIDENT, NAZARETH AREA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE: Which means more classrooms, which means more teachers, which means more services and as a result, somebody is going to have to pay for that. 

 GERSH: Brackbill was the first Republican elected to countywide office in decades. But even he is undecided in this race, concerned how the presidential candidates` economic plans will affect local government`s ability to deal with the new prosperity. 

 BRACKBILL: I`m concerned about both candidates saying they`re going to spend billions for this and billions for that. Where are these billions coming from? And I think that`s going to be a major, major issue in terms of my making up my mind how I`m going to vote. 

 GERSH: At the nearby Nazareth Speedway, Bob Schechter is about to enjoy a birthday present from his wife, a few spins around the track. Issues that once dominated independent voters concerns, like the federal debt, are now less important to many independents like Schechter. 

 BOB SCHECHTER, UNDECIDED VOTER: Some years ago, I thought it was very important that we bring down the debt when it was going up and up and up and it didn`t seem like there would be any end. At this point, I think a balance between debt reduction and tax cuts certainly would be OK with me, which is why that is really kind of a non factor. 

 GERSH: The good economy has changed the rhythm of life here. Now undecided voters will be watching the presidential debates to see which candidate is in tune with their hopes for the future. 

 Darren Gersh, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Nazareth Pennsylvania. 

 GHARIB: Ma Bell has a new grandchild, Avaya (AV). The office phone system maker was spun off today by Lucent Technologies (LU), which was once itself an AT&T (T) spin off. But Wall Street didn`t celebrate the birth of Avaya`s stock. It fell $2.75 to $20.19 and today`s spin off makes Avaya the third most widely held stock in America. 

 Paul? 

 KANGAS: Interesting name, Susie, you know? The company said it doesn`t really mean anything and it`s not an acronym. The company just liked the sound of it. 

 GHARIB: Interesting. 

 KANGAS: Yeah. To me, it sounds like the second part of a greeting like hello, how are you, you know? Well, anyway, the Lucent parent did all right today. We`ll see that in a just a moment. It was in the actives. Up 49.21 on the Dow. The broader market lower by a 16 to 13 margin; 116 new highs for the year, 87 new lows. 

 Lucent Technologies (LU), the parent of Avaya, topped the active list on 17.6 million shares, moving up $2.16. 

 Then Nortel Networks (NT) rising $2.44. UBS Warburg Brokerage expects the company to meet third quarter earnings estimates of $0.17 a share and rates NorTel a "buy." 

 Dynegy (DYN) lost $4. The company is planning the sale of a 10 million share block. But it was added to the Standard & Poor`s 500 Index after the close of trading today. 

 AT & T Corp Liberty Media (LMGA) edged up $0.38. 

 King Pharmaceutical (KG) up $2.75. That stock will be added to the Standard & Poor`s 500 Index after the close of trading tomorrow, obviously index fund buying today. 

 Summit Bancorp (SUB) up $3.63. As you heard earlier, it`s going to be acquired for $7 billion in stock, it works out to roughly $40 a share, by Fleet Boston. 

 And FleetBoston Financial (FBF) itself down $0.63. 

 General Electric (GE) moved up $0.81. 

 Motorola (MOT) dropped $0.31. 

 And AT & T (T) 10th in big board volume, down $0.38 a share. 

 Boeing (BA) was down $4.38. Lehman Brothers downgraded the stock from "outperform" to "neutral," as I mentioned earlier. 

 ExxonMobil (XOM) hitting a new high, up $2.31, and of course New York November oil futures moved up $1.34 a barrel today. 

 General Motors (GM) up $2.13. The cover story in this week`s "Baron`s Financial" suggests Carl Icahn may move back into General Motors stock after just selling some of it. 

 IBM (IBM) up $5.31. That was the biggest point gainer in the Dow and the move apparently in anticipation of an announcement soon of a mainframe computer upgrade by Big Blue. 

 Norfolk Southern (NSC) down $1.19. The company sees lower than expected third quarter earnings of $0.22 to $0.26 a share and it cites problems of higher fuel costs. 

 Texas Instruments (TXN) moved up $2.69. The company unveiled its fourth generation digital signal processor, which is designed for Web music devices. 

 Navistar International Holding (NAV) up $6.56. The company reportedly received a buyout bid from the truck maker, PACCAR (PCAR). But PACCAR today said it doesn`t know anything about it, denied that it made a bid. 

 IBP (IBP), the old Iowa beef packers, up $3.44. A unit of Donaldson Lufkin will acquire this company for $2.4 billion in cash. That works out to $22.25 a share. 

 Waddell & Reed Financial (WDR) up $4.19. The company says it has had exploratory talks with a number of parties about a business combination. 

 Warnaco (WAC) the big percentage loser, down $1.56. The company sees a third quarter loss in the range of $0.45 to $0.50. The Street was expecting a loss of only $0.23 a share. 

 Tefron Limited (TFR) off $4.19. The company sees just a break even third quarter due to the negative impact of foreign exchange. 

 And Dot Hill Systems (HIL) off $1.88. The company sees a loss in the third quarter of $0.05 to $0.15 a share. 

 NASDAQ trading, nearly a 104 point drop in the Index, volume down from Friday`s pace, about 14 stocks up for every 26 lower. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) topped the active list, moving up $0.25. 

 But Intel (INTC) dropped $1.44. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) off $4.75. 

 Sun Microsystems (SUNW) off $3.19. 

 And Juniper Networks (JNPR) dropped $12.81, fifth in volume. /16 

 Ariba (ARBA) down $16.20. 

 No change in Oracle (ORCL). That was a triumph in the tech sector. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) fell $1.19. 

 And MedImmune (MEDI) dropping $20.50 a share. Bank of America cut 2001 earnings on MedImmune by $0.11, down to $0.75 a share. 

 And Dell Computer (DELL) off $1.56, 10th in big board -- or volume on NASDAQ. 

 Professional Detailing (PDII) had a good day, up $23. The company is in a five year pact with Glaxo Wellcome (GLX) to market Glaxo`s antibiotic called Ceftin. 

 And Silicon Valley Group (SVGI) up $7.35. This company will be acquired by ASM Lithography (ASML) for stock worth about $38 a share. 

 Project Software & Development (PSDI) plunged $4.30. The company sees fourth quarter earnings falling below the Wall Street estimate of $0.16 a share. 

 The American Exchange Index down 11 1/3 points. 

 But Vialog (VX) was up $1.44. The company will be acquired by a French company called Genesys for stock worth about $12 to $13 a share. 

 And DRS Technologies (DRS) down $2.25. A little profit taking after a nice run-up last week in anticipation it would get a large Navy order for its acoustic data recorder. The company made the announcement it did get the order today. Buy on the rumors and sell on the news. 

 The Index Shares, well, we see two fractional gainers in the DIAMONDS (DIA) and the S&P Depositary (SPY). 

 But naturally the NASDAQ Qs (QQQ) were down considerably. 

 That`s the Wall Street Wrap Up. Susie? 

 GHARIB: Thanks, Paul. 

 As we`ve been reporting, the Federal Reserve meets tomorrow and most economists do not expect any change in policy. Let`s talk more about this. 

 Our colleague from BridgeNews, Deborah Lagomarsino, joins me live now. Hi, Deborah. 

 DEBORAH LAGOMARSINO, MONETARY POLICY REPORTER, BRIDGENEWS: Hi, Susie. 

 GHARIB: Now, I know you regularly talk to Fed officials. What have they been telling you that you can glean that why they`re more comfortable about not doing anything about interest rates? 

 LAGOMARSINO: Well, there`s really three main factors. The economy has slowed down markedly from its second quarter pace to about a 2 1/2 to 3 percent from 5.6 percent. Inflation remains under wraps and productivity is surging. All these factors really combine to make them more comfortable with where rates are right now. 

 GHARIB: But there are some risks and what are the things that are making them nervous? 

 LAGOMARSINO: There are. There`s also three main risks to them. There`s oil prices, which they are concerned could seep into core inflation. The tight labor markets are a concern in terms of whether this results in higher wages. And thirdly is demand. We have seen demand slow in the second quarter from the first, but it`s picked back up again in the third quarter to about four to five percent from about three percent. If that persists, it`s going to be more of a risk on the up side. 

 GHARIB: All right, so then going forward, what kind of direction, again, from your conversations with Fed officials, what`s going to be the direction of the Fed after this meeting and after the elections? 

 LAGOMARSINO: Well, at this point, people expect the Fed will keep on hold for the rest of the year. But beyond that, it`s really an open question with economists I speak to very divided on whether the Fed will ease or raise rates. And what`s critical here is demand and inflation, if those continue to taper off or pick back up again. 

 GHARIB: And we`ve been hearing a little bit, some talk about maybe a cut in interest rates. 

 LAGOMARSINO: Right. Right. 

 GHARIB: Any possibility of that? 

 LAGOMARSINO: Well, I think it would be a little premature right now since certainly the Fed, as we expect, will continue to warn tomorrow the risks remain weighted toward higher inflation, as they have all year. And some of the factors I`ve heard that could lead to a move of an easing would be a faltering housing market, a real ramping down of demand and also rise in the unemployment rate. 

 GHARIB: All right, well the chances of that? 

 LAGOMARSINO: Well, not very big at this moment. I think it`s going to depend. Sort of time will tell on those issues. 

 GHARIB: All right, besides the Fed meeting tomorrow, there`s the first of the presidential debates and one thing that they`re going to be talking about is their economic plan. 

 LAGOMARSINO: Right. 

 GHARIB: Again, for people you`ve been talking to, the economists, who do they say has the better plan for the economy? 

 LAGOMARSINO: Well, as you know, it really depends on who you talk to. And at this point what Greenspan has said is he would prefer the budget surplus be used to pay down the debt and if it`s touched.... 

 GHARIB: And neither candidate is saying that. 

 LAGOMARSINO: Right. Right. And if it`s touched at all that it be used to actually lower taxes and not increase spending and we all know that the candidates each want to, you know, lower taxes. And so at this point, what the Fed is counting on is a more stimulated fiscal policy. At bottom, it`s really just going to keep them on guard, either candidate`s proposals. 

 GHARIB: All right. We`ll see what happens. Thank you so much for keeping us up to date. 

 LAGOMARSINO: My pleasure. 

 GHARIB: We`ve been speaking with Deborah Lagomarsino, Monetary Policy Reporter with BridgeNews. 

 KANGAS: Tomorrow, are Americans still buying SUVs? We`ll see tomorrow with September`s auto sales. 

 GHARIB: On the first day of its new term, the U.S. Supreme Court said that ExxonMobil (XOM) still has to pay $5 billion in damages for the 1989 oil spill in Alaska, the nation`s worst ever. But Exxon said that today`s ruling covers only one of its many appeals and the case is not over yet. Separately, the Supreme Court let stand a hear court ruling throwing out a case brought by America Online (AOL) members alleging that the company imposed unfair charges. 

 KANGAS: Chalk up a win for Merck (MRK). The drug maker today received FDA approval to market its popular osteoporosis drug for men. Fosamax has been marketed to post-menopausal women since 1995 and has annual sales of just over $1 billion. An estimated two million American men suffer from osteoporosis and need help improving bone density. Nevertheless, Merck`s shares today closed at $74.06, down $0.38. 

 GHARIB: The high cost of oil and electricity has been pumping up some energy stocks. One company, Capstone Turbine (CPST), has been booming since its IPO in June. 

 As Pat Anson reports, this small California company has dreams of being a big player in the energy sector. 

 PAT ANSON, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: For most of its history, Capstone Turbine failed to generate much interest, a privately held manufacturer that consistently lost money while it worked at developing new power generators. Then the company went public and its obscurity quickly ended. From its initial offering price of $16 a share, Capstone opened at $27 and within a few weeks was trading as high as $98. At one point this tiny company had a market cap of over $7 billion. Capstone`s CEO says the company clearly benefited from a sudden interest in cheap, alternative sources of energy. 

 AKE AIMGREN, CEO, CAPSTONE TURBINE: It`s a huge interest in distributed generation, clean power and the fact that Capstone, we do have a product which is available now. It`s a real product. I think that`s a major part of the explanation. 

 ANSON: Capstone has developed a small power generator about the size of a refrigerator priced at about $30,000 apiece. These micro turbines run on natural gas or propane and have a wide range of applications. They can be used to power busses, drilling rigs, even retail stores. Most importantly, these micro turbines produce fairly cheap electricity at prices below the peak rates charged by some utilities. Some analysts believe the high energy costs and brownouts of this past summer were no fluke, that strong demand for electricity and power shortages are likely again next summer. 

 DOUG CHRISTOPHER, SR. ANALYST, CROWELL, WEEDON & COMPANY: The most near-term solution, unless we want to face more brownouts and blackouts and really come into a severe power constraint, is to install the micro turbines. The technology is there. They`re very efficient, clearly cheaper. 

 ANSON: Some analysts say Capstone is a good "long term buy." But short term, after such a big run up, it may cool off just like the weather. 

 BRETT HENDRICKSON, ANALYST, B. RILEY & COMPANY: We know that there`s been institutions out there actively trying to shore up some of these stocks to try and pick the top. 

 ANSON: Would you say companies like Capstone are overvalued at this point? 

 HENDRICKSON: I think investors who are buying companies based on kind of real bottom up analysis really have to start questioning the valuations now. It`s really hard to place a value on them because most of the companies aren`t making any money. 

 ANSON: With sales climbing and a strong backlog of orders, Capstone hopes to generate profits in about two years. 

 Pat Anson, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Los Angeles. 

 KANGAS: Recapping today`s market action, the Dow gained 49 points, but the NASDAQ Index fell almost 104 points. 

 And please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America online, keyword: NBR. 

 GHARIB: And that`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for this first Monday in October, October 2nd. I`m Susie Gharib. Good night, everyone. Good night to you, Paul. 

 KANGAS: Good night, Susie. I`m Paul Kangas, wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dwa20005g
 

 

 Dow Jones industrial average increases 49.21, closing at 10,700.13 

 BY LISA SINGHANIA 
AP
636 words
2 October 2000
22:58
The Canadian Press
CPR
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) _ Stock prices were mixed Monday as investors worried about corporate profits and the moderating economy once again unloaded technology issues. 

 Blue chips fared somewhat better, but were unable to rally the overall market because of ongoing fears that third-quarter results for many of Wall Street's highest profile and most expensive stocks will be disappointing. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 49.21 at 10,700.13. 

 Broader indicators were lower. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 103.92 to 3,568.90 after moving higher earlier in the day. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 0.28 at 1,436.23. 

 ``The volatility is going to stay with us because valuations for stocks aren't cheap, especially in technology,'' said Rick Jandrain, chief investment officer for equity securities at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. ``In 1999, the market was just dominated by technology and this year it's totally different. The non-tech part of the market is doing better.'' 

 The market fell sharply during September amid growing uneasiness about profits, not just for the third quarter, but also the coming quarters. 

 Investors are nervous because of increasing indications that the economy is slowing, the latest being an industry report Monday that suggested the nation's manufacturing activity contracted for the second straight month. 

 The market has fallen into a pattern of selling stocks that appear vulnerable or warn of poor performance. On Monday, that anxiety focused on technology issues, which have traded at especially high levels in recent years. 

 Chipmaker Intel fell $1.44 to $40.13, extending a decline triggered by a profit warning last month. Microsoft was down $1.13 to $59.13 and Web portal Yahoo! dropped $4.94 to $86.06. Computer maker Dell dropped $1.56 to $29.25. 

 But telecom equipment maker Lucent climbed $2.44 to $31 on Monday, as did rival Nortel Networks, which was up $2.25 at $62.38. 

 Gary Kaltbaum, a technical analyst at JWGenesis, said Lucent's popularity with investors Monday only reflects how cheap the stock has become. He believes tech issues, as a sector, remain depressed. 

 ``When you have names like Intel and Dell and Microsoft under pressure, you can't expect much,'' he said. ``I think it goes back to when market favourites and leaders are under pressure, the soldiers that fall behind them can't do so well.'' 

 Non-tech issues also lagged. 

 Boeing fell $4.69 to $58.44 after Lehman Brothers downgraded the stock from ``outperform'' to ``neutral.'' 

 Xerox warned late Monday after trading that its earnings would be below expectations, an announcement likely to trigger volatility in its own stock Tuesday. 

 But there was some positive news. 

 Investors looking for good buys Monday bid Electronic Data Systems up $2.31 to $43.81 after a Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded the stock to ``Recommended for Purchase'' from ``Market Outperformer.'' 

 Meat processor IBP rose $3.44 at $21.75 on news it was being acquired by the investment unit of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette for $2.4 billion in cash. 

 Shares of Merrill Lynch traded higher, up $3.50 at $69.50 on rumours the financial services company might be a possible target for a takeover. 

 Energy issues were higher on persistent worries about higher oil prices and conflict in the Middle East. Exxon Mobil was up $2.31 at $91.44. Schlumberger rose $2.63 to $84.94. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 7-5 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidate dvolume came to 1.24 billion shares, compared to 786.10 million in the previous session. 

 The Russell 200 index fell 9.70 to 511.67. 

Document cpr0000020010804dwa200zd0
 

 

Fn
Nasdaq tumbles 

Associated Press
393 words
2 October 2000
Chicago Sun-Times
CHI
English
© 2000 Chicago Sun Times.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

NEW YORK Stock prices moved lower today as concerns about corporate profits and a moderating economy once again limited gains. 

The market attempted to rebound earlier in the day but was dragged down as investors unloaded Internet and software-related issues. 

The Dow Jones industrial average was up 49.21 at 10,700.13. But the Nasdaq composite index fell 103.84 to 3,568.98 after moving higher earlier in the day. The Standard &Poor's 500 index was off .28 at 1436.23. 

"There's not a lot going on right now, but the tone isn't that bad," said Rick Jandrain, chief investment officer for equity securities at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. "We've already discounted some earnings surprises on the downside, so once we get into earnings reports this week, I don't think things are going to be too bad." 

Investors were cautious as they awaited the release of third- quarter earnings reports later this month. They again sold off stocks of companies that warned of disappointing results. 

The market fell sharply during September amid growing uneasiness about profits, not just for the third quarter, but also the coming quarters. Reaction to a profit warning from Apple Computer sent the Dow down 173 points and the Nasdaq 105 points on Friday. 

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a narrow margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 770.96 million shares, compared to 786.10 million in the previous session. 

The U.S. dollar rose against most major currencies in European trading Monday. Gold prices were mixed. 

The euro was quoted at 88.02 cents in late European trading, down from 88.24 cents Friday. Later in midday trading in New York, the euro traded at 87.92 cents. 

Other dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Friday, included 108.85 Japanese yen, up from 108.10; 1.7292 Swiss francs, up from 1.7275; 1.5090 Canadian dollars, up from 1.5025. The British pound was quoted at $1.4683, down from $1.4762. 

Gold closed in London at $273.20 bid per troy ounce, up from $273.00. In Zurich the bid price was $272.85, down from $273.20. 

Silver closed in London at $4.87 bid per troy ounce, up from $4.84.  

Document chi0000020010804dwa200rm7
 

 

The Trader
 MARKET WEEK -- Stocks 
 Apple's Warning Takes a Bite Out of Nasdaq 

 By Andrew Bary 
2,793 words
2 October 2000
Barron's
B
MW3
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 The formerly impregnable technology sector showed more cracks last week after Apple Computer's profit warning raised fresh concerns about the personal computer market and as investors grew more edgy about the ability of even the strongest tech companies to deliver big earnings gains in a tougher economic environment. 

 The Nasdaq fell 131 points, or 3.5%, in the five sessions, to 3672, capped by a 105-point drop on Friday, when Apple lost more than half its market value. For September, the Nasdaq was down 12.7%, its worst monthly showing since April, when the index was off 15.6%. The September plunge more than reversed the Nasdaq's 11% August surge and the index now is down 9.8% so far this year. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average fared better, falling 196 points, or 1.8%, to 10,650 in the week, with most of the drop occurring Friday, when it was off 173 points. The Dow was hurt by a 30% drop in Eastman Kodak, which warned of weak third-quarter profits, and a further decline in Intel. The Dow fell 5% in September, bringing its loss for the year to 7.4%. The S&P 500 declined 0.8% last week, to 1436, and is off 2.2% in 2000. 

 Notable Dow gainers last week were Procter & Gamble, United Technologies, American Express and SBC Communications. Telephone, tobacco, thrift and utility stocks were strong as the Dow Jones Utility Average rose 6% to 398.2, a record close. Brokerage stocks advanced Friday, led by Bear Stearns, which added 6.25 to 63.13 amid renewed takeover speculation. There was no specific buyer mentioned for Bear Stearns, but the talk is that the firm could fetch around $80 a share, or 2.7 times book value, a slight discount to multiples received by PaineWebber and Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette. 

 "Technology investors haven't wanted to hear the word risk, but Intel and Apple have underscored the dangers in the sector," says Byron Wien, chief domestic strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "Intel is one of the top five companies in the country, but it lost 22% of its value in a day and 44% in a month." Intel was down 3.38 last week to 41.56 last week and dropped 33 points in September. Apple plunged 27.75 to 25.75 on Friday, sparking a rout in the PC sector as Dell Computer lost 2.63 to 30.81, a new 52-week low, while Gateway dropped 5.75 to 48.25. Wien's concern is that "there's rarely only one cockroach." It'll be interesting to see if Microsoft is hurt by the fallout in the PC sector. Its shares fell 3 to 60.25 last week and have lost nearly half their value this year. (For more on the state of PC makers, see page 19.) 

 One of the ironies about the Intel rout is that the chipmaker didn't begin September with an especially high valuation. It traded at 45 times projected 2000 profits on August 31, half the multiples on the Fab Five companies that now pace the tech sector: Cisco Systems, EMC, Sun Microsystems, Oracle and Nortel Networks. Intel finished Friday trading at 25 times expected 2000 profits, in line with the market multiple. 

 The issue now confronting tech investors is this: If any highly valued company experiences even a modest profit shortfall, its stock could get halved. The table on the following page shows the big disparity in the performance of major tech stocks this year. Favorites like Oracle, EMC, Sun, Veritas Software, Ciena and Juniper Networks still command very high multiples. Juniper tops the list, trading at over 700 times projected 2000 profits. 

 Priceline.com plunged 10 to 11.88 after announcing that third-quarter revenues from airline ticket sales would be below expectations. Priceline now is down over 90% from its peak of 160 in early 1999. Priceline blamed airplane fuel surcharges and reduced availability of seats from major carriers. But some suspect that Priceline's airline business has peaked because travelers don't like the service, and that the company isn't getting "traction" in its other name-your-price businesses, including groceries. Airlines may have even less incentive now to make plentiful seats available to Priceline, because the warrants they received from the company last year in return for participating in the system now are so far out of the money -- they're stuck around 55 -- that the carriers have little immediate hope of ever reaping any profits on them. 

 Procter & Gamble gained 3 to 67 despite reducing its long-term goals for profit and sales growth. The stock advanced because analysts praised the move as realistic. P&G's new CEO, A.G. Lafley, reduced the company's annual sales objective to 4%-6% from 6%-8% and its targeted growth in profits per share to around 10% from the low- to mid-teens. 

 Sanford Bernstein analyst Jim Gingrich lauded the move as an "important step" for the company, and a potential "bellwether event" for the industry, where many companies still cling to low-teens profit goals. Many investors would view the Procter news as further reason to avoid a low-growth sector. But Gingrich views it as positive because prior growth targets "created incentives for companies to destroy shareholder value through market-share wars, excessive marketing support, new-product development spending and costly acquisitions." 

 -- An obscure industrial company, SPX moved to highlight the value of a fastgrowing technology division by selling off a small slice of it in a recent initial public offering. The IPO was a hit, as shares of the tech outfit, Inrange Technologies, soared from an offering price of 16 on September 22 to close at 53 on Friday. 

 But SPX's stock has fallen from its August high of 186 to 142, even though the value of the company's 90% stake in Inrange, a leader in the hot field of fiber channel switches, is nearly equal to SPX's current market capitalization. SPX, which has 31.7 million shares outstanding, owns roughly 75 million Inrange shares. 

 SPX's stake in Inrange is worth around $125 per SPX share. The company's core industrial business, which is expected to earn around $5 a share this year, has been valued at around $100 a share by Nicholas Heymann, an analyst at Prudential Securities. This suggests that SPX is worth over $200 a share. 

 What could account for the situation? One issue is that SPX may have difficulty spinning off its 90% interest in Inrange to its shareholders until 2003 because of rules governing tax-free spinoffs. Inrange had been a unit of General Signal, which SPX bought in 1998. The Internal Revenue Service generally requires that a company be held for five years before it can be spun off by the parent. Yet Bob Willens, the tax expert at Lehman Brothers, says SPX could act before 2003 if it takes certain restructuring steps involving Inrange. 

 Arbitrageurs haven't been active in buying SPX and shorting Inrange because Inrange's thin float, under eight million shares, makes it difficult to borrow. It's also possible that Inrange could eventually fall when the full float in its shares hits the market. 

 Traders recall that for 3Com initially traded at a discount to the value of its stake in Palm after the Palm IPO in February. But the gap eventually closed by the time of the Palm spinoff in August. This suggests that patient investors could do well with SPX, barring a collapse in Inrange. 

 -- Philip Morris rose 1.88 to 29.44 after one Wall Street analyst said it could top $40 following the IPO of the company's food business, Kraft, which is expected in early 2001. 

 Philip Morris is expected to complete its acquisition of Nabisco Holdings, the cookie and cracker maker, in November, paving the way for the planned IPO of the combined Kraft/Nabisco. 

 Martin Feldman, the tobacco analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, told clients last week that assuming Kraft trades for 10 times projected 2001 cash flow, the Philip Morris cigarette business now is getting accorded a minimal value. 

 Feldman said that if the tobacco business, dominated by the Marlboro franchise, trades for 2.6 times cash flow, the same multiple as is commanded by pureplay cigarette company R.J. Reynolds Tobacco, Philip Morris could hit 39. Feldman believes there's more upside to Philip Morris than 39 because its tobacco operations are superior to those of Reynolds. 

 One hitch is whether Kraft will trade for 10 times cash flow and whether investors will give Philip Morris full credit for its stake in Kraft, given the company's tobacco liability. 

 -- When an investor group led by Bear Stearns and buyout specialist Hicks Muse Tate & Furst announced a deal to buy Johns Manville in June, some Manville holders groused that the offer was inadequate. 

 But now the fear is that the leveraged buyout could fall apart because of tough conditions in the junk-bond market. Johns Manville stock has fallen to 11.32 from 13 in August, leaving it appreciably below the buyout price, which includes $13.63 in cash and $2 of preferred stock -- which could be worth half its stated value. The buyout package is valued at around $14.50. 

 The $3 billion purchase price for Manville, a leading maker of building materials that has successfully dealt with its asbestos liability, includes $565 million of equity and $2.35 billion in debt to be raised through Bear Stearns, a big commitment on the part of the usually risk-averse brokerage firm. 

 Yet investor resistance to financing an LBO of a cyclical industrial company could make the Manville purchase prohibitively expensive to pull off, if it can be done at all. 

 -- It's rare to see a healthy company inflict as much damage on itself as did International Flavors & Fragrances last week. 

 The No. 1 worldwide maker of fragrances and flavors, IFF pulled off an unusual triple play. It simultaneously announced an earnings miss, a dividend cut and a dubious acquisition that will besmirch its formerly pristine balance sheet. 

 Wall Street didn't react favorably to the news, as the stock plunged 5.25 to 18.25, way below its 52-week high of 39.25 and its record high of 55 in 1996. IFF now is back where it stood in 1987. 

 IFF, whose profits have fallen short of expectations for several years, said it expects 2000 earnings to be around $1.55 a share, below the First Call consensus of $1.80 and under last year's $1.79 a share and the $2.24 it earned in 1995. The company also said it will slash its payout to 15 cents per quarter from 38 cents. 

 The company announced it will purchase Bush Boake Allen, a smaller player in the fragrance-and-flavor business, for $970 million in cash, or $48.50 a sharemore than 30 times Bush Boake's projected 2000 profits and twice its price at the start of 2000. Prior to the deal, IFF traded around 23, 15 times its new 2000 profit guidance. IFF, which long prided itself on a clean balance sheet, will take on large amounts of debt to finance the Bush Boake deal. 

 IFF has struggled in the past few years because of tough conditions in the food business, weakness in the fine fragrance market and consolidation among its customers, which include Procter & Gamble and Estee Lauder. 

 Back in 1998, Barron's favorably profiled IFF, saying it had a strong franchise and could eventually be taken over. At the time, IFF traded around 42. 

 The Bush Boake Allen acquisition is the work of IFF's new chief executive, Richard Goldstein, who joined the company in June from Unilever, succeeding longtime CEO Eugene Grisanti. The deal smacks of desperation by IFF, which long considered itself superior to Bush Boake Allen. Long ago, IFF actually had a hot stock. It was one of the Nifty Fifty in the early 1970s, when it traded at 75 times earnings. 

 The merger is expected to dilute IFF's profits in 2001, when the company is seen earning $1.25 a share, but it will be neutral on a "cash" earnings basis, which excludes goodwill amortization. Cash profits next year are seen at $1.55-$1.60 a share. 

 The logic of the deal eluded Wall Street because Bush Boake Allen hasn't exactly flourished in recent years. Its profits this year are expected to total $1.45 a share, less than the $1.57 it earned in 1995. So IFF is paying over 30 times profits for a no-growth company. 

 It's tempting to say that IFF is attractive at these depressed levels. But with a CEO like Goldstein doing so much damage in such a short time, it's hard to have a lot of confidence. 

 It's conceivable that IFF could attract a hostile takeover attempt from the likes of Givaudan, the large Swiss flavor-and-fragrance company. Yet that's probably a long shot because the Van Ameringen family, which controls about 25% of IFF stock, seems to back Goldstein. 


---
                      VITAL SIGNS
                      FRIDAY'S   WEEK'S    WEEK'S
                       CLOSE     CHANGE    % CHG.
DJ Industrials         10650.92   -196.45   -1.81
DJ Transportation       2521.64   - 75.50   -2.91
DJ Utilities             398.22   + 23.06   +6.15
DJ 65 Stocks            3173.96   -  6.24   - .20
DJ US Tot. Mkt           339.85   -  1.75   - .51
NYSE Comp.               663.04   +  3.70   + .56
Amex Comp.               954.31   + 24.37   +2.62
S&P 500                 1436.51   - 12.21   - .84
S&P MidCap               538.81   + 11.87   +2.25
S&P SmallCap             217.29   +  1.17   + .54
Nasdaq                  3672.82   -130.94   -3.44
Value Line (arith.)     1130.80   +  3.01   + .27
Russell 2000             521.37   +  2.55   + .49
Wilshire 5000          13613.33   - 64.82   - .47
                                Last Week        Week Ago
NYSE Advances                     1,838             986
Declines                          1,429           2,304
Unchanged                           231             228
New Highs                           292             198
New Lows                            255             264
Av Daily Vol (mil)                1,317.1         1,267.3
Dollar (Finex spot index)           113.25          113.56
T-Bond (CBT nearby futures)          98-20           98-04
Crude Oil (NYM light sweet crude)    30.84           32.68
Inflation KR-CRB
 (Futures Price Index)              226.66          226.32
Gold (CMX nearby futures)           273.60          271.80
  ---
               Quarterly Stock Scoreboard
Winners -- NYSE
Issue                     Last        Change      Pct
MagellnHlth               3.88        +2.63      +210.0
Huffy                    10.31        +6.00      +139.1
HlthplnSvc                5.38        +3.06      +132.4
LaBranche                33.38       +19.00      +132.2
ManorCare                15.69        +8.69      +124.1
Humana                   10.75        +5.88      +120.5
BergnBruns               11.69        +6.19      +112.5
BeverlyEnt                5.94        +3.13      +111.1
DonLufJen                89.44       +47.00      +110.8
RepGp                    18.38        +9.38      +104.2
Winners -- AMEX
Issue                     Last        Change       Pct
HeartlndTch               3.25        +2.38      +271.4
AvanirPhrm                8.38        +5.19      +162.7
EmersnRadio               2.06        +1.25      +153.8
BFX Hspty                 2.06        +1.25      +153.8
SevnSeas                  3.00        +1.81      +152.6
DgtlPwr                   6.63        +3.81      +135.6
Vialog                    8.81        +4.94      +127.4
B&H Ocean                 1.13        +. 63      +125.0
InvrnssMed               19.25       +10.25      +113.9
ProfBcpCA                 7.44        +3.94      +112.5
Losers -- NYSE
Issue                     Last        Change       Pct
GC Cos                    3.00       -19.38      - 86.6
Unicap                   11.00       -  .52      - 82.5
CarmkeCnma               69.00       - 3.19      - 82.3
RelianceGp                2.00       -  .55      - 72.9
WHX Cp                    1.50       - 4.00      - 72.7
OwenCorn                  2.63       - 6.63      - 71.6
E4L                       0.23       -  .58      - 71.2
PrimeRtl                  0.38       -  .88      - 70.0
WHX Cp pfA                6.56       -15.06      - 69.7
CampblRes                 0.56       - 1.25      - 69.0
Losers -- AMEX
Issue                     Last        Change       Pct
EpicEdge                  2.75       -20.25      - 88.0
AveEntnGp                  .38       - 1.44      - 79.3
Unidigital                 .31       - 1.00      - 76.2
HomeSecInt                 .31       -  .94      - 75.0
EmpireCar                  .09       -  .22      - 70.0
EmpireCar pfA              .94       - 2.19      - 70.0
USURF                      .75       - 1.56      - 67.6
E-Medsoft                 2.63       - 5.44      - 67.4
TransFnlHldg               .05       - 1.00      - 66.7
DisptchMgt                 .44       -  .88      - 66.7


Document b000000020010803dwa2001t3
 

 

 Nasdaq Ends Down 104; Dow Gains 49 

 By LISA SINGHANIA 
AP Business Writer
724 words
2 October 2000
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2000 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stock prices were mixed Monday as investors worried about corporate profits and the moderating economy once again unloaded technology issues. 

 Blue chips fared somewhat better, but were unable to rally the overall market because of ongoing fears that third-quarter results for many of Wall Street's highest profile and most expensive stocks will be disappointing. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 49.21 at 10,700.13. 

 Broader indicators were lower. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 103.92 to 3,568.90 after moving higher earlier in the day. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 0.28 at 1,436.23. 

 "The volatility is going to stay with us because valuations for stocks aren't cheap, especially in technology," said Rick Jandrain, chief investment officer for equity securities at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. "In 1999, the market was just dominated by technology and this year it's totally different. The non-tech part of the market is doing better." 

 The market fell sharply during September amid growing uneasiness about profits, not just for the third quarter, but also the coming quarters. 

 Investors are nervous because of increasing indications that the economy is slowing, the latest being an industry report Monday that suggested the nation's manufacturing activity contracted for the second straight month. 

 The market has fallen into a pattern of selling stocks that appear vulnerable or warn of poor performance. On Monday, that anxiety focused on technology issues, which have traded at especially high levels in recent years. 

 Chipmaker Intel fell $1.44 to $40.13, extending a decline triggered by a profit warning last month. Microsoft was down $1.13 to $59.13 and Web portal Yahoo! dropped $4.94 to $86.06. Computer maker Dell dropped $1.56 to $29.25. 

 But telecom equipment maker Lucent climbed $2.44 to $31 on Monday, as did rival Nortel Networks, which was up $2.25 at $62.38. 

 Gary Kaltbaum, a technical analyst at JWGenesis, said Lucent's popularity with investors Monday only reflects how cheap the stock has become. He believes tech issues, as a sector, remain depressed. 

 "When you have names like Intel and Dell and Microsoft under pressure, you can't expect much," he said. "I think it goes back to when market favorites and leaders are under pressure, the soldiers that fall behind them can't do so well." 

 Non-tech issues also lagged. 

 Boeing fell $4.69 to $58.44 after Lehman Brothers downgraded the stock from "outperform" to "neutral." 

 Xerox warned late Monday after trading that its earnings would be below expectations, an announcement likely to trigger volatility in its own stock Tuesday. 

 But there were also some upturns. 

 Investors looking for good buys Monday bid Electronic Data Systems up $2.31 to $43.81 after a Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded the stock to "Recommended for Purchase" from "Market Outperformer." 

 Meat processor IBP rose $3.44 at $21.75 on news it was being acquired by the investment unit of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette for $2.4 billion in cash. 

 Summit Bancorp rose $3.63 to $38.13 on news it was was being purchased by FleetBoston Financial for $7 billion. FleetBoston's shares fell 50 cents to $38.50. Shares of Merrill Lynch traded higher, up $3.50 at $69.50 on rumors the financial services company might be a possible target for a takeover. 

 Energy issues were higher on persistent worries about higher oil prices and conflict in the Middle East. Exxon Mobil was up $2.31 at $91.44. Schlumberger rose $2.63 to $84.94. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 7-to-5 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.24 billion shares, compared to the 1.41 billion in the previous session. 

 The Russell 200 index fell 9.70 to 511.67. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.99 percent. Germany's DAX index was up 0.94 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 slipped 0.15 percent, and France's CAC-40 was up 1.32 percent. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

AP-Wall-Street; D77CH7UO0

Document asp0000020010804dwa202agl
 

 

 Stocks end day mixed, pulled down by tech selling 

 By LISA SINGHANIA 
AP Business Writer
723 words
2 October 2000
23:51
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stock prices were mixed Monday as investors worried about corporate profits and the moderating economy once again unloaded technology issues. 

 Blue chips fared somewhat better, but were unable to rally the overall market because of ongoing fears that third-quarter results for many of Wall Street's highest profile and most expensive stocks will be disappointing. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 49.21 at 10,700.13. 

 Broader indicators were lower. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 103.92 to 3,568.90 after moving higher earlier in the day. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 0.28 at 1,436.23. 

 "The volatility is going to stay with us because valuations for stocks aren't cheap, especially in technology," said Rick Jandrain, chief investment officer for equity securities at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. "In 1999, the market was just dominated by technology and this year it's totally different. The non-tech part of the market is doing better." 

 The market fell sharply during September amid growing uneasiness about profits, not just for the third quarter, but also the coming quarters. 

 Investors are nervous because of increasing indications that the economy is slowing, the latest being an industry report Monday that suggested the nation's manufacturing activity contracted for the second straight month. 

 The market has fallen into a pattern of selling stocks that appear vulnerable or warn of poor performance. On Monday, that anxiety focused on technology issues, which have traded at especially high levels in recent years. 

 Chipmaker Intel fell $1.44 to $40.13, extending a decline triggered by a profit warning last month. Microsoft was down $1.13 to $59.13 and Web portal Yahoo! dropped $4.94 to $86.06. Computer maker Dell dropped $1.56 to $29.25. 

 But telecom equipment maker Lucent climbed $2.44 to $31 on Monday, as did rival Nortel Networks, which was up $2.25 at $62.38. 

 Gary Kaltbaum, a technical analyst at JWGenesis, said Lucent's popularity with investors Monday only reflects how cheap the stock has become. He believes tech issues, as a sector, remain depressed. 

 "When you have names like Intel and Dell and Microsoft under pressure, you can't expect much," he said. "I think it goes back to when market favorites and leaders are under pressure, the soldiers that fall behind them can't do so well." 

 Non-tech issues also lagged. 

 Boeing fell $4.69 to $58.44 after Lehman Brothers downgraded the stock from "outperform" to "neutral." 

 Xerox warned late Monday after trading that its earnings would be below expectations, an announcement likely to trigger volatility in its own stock Tuesday. 

 But there were also some upturns. 

 Investors looking for good buys Monday bid Electronic Data Systems up $2.31 to $43.81 after a Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded the stock to "Recommended for Purchase" from "Market Outperformer." 

 Meat processor IBP rose $3.44 at $21.75 on news it was being acquired by the investment unit of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette for $2.4 billion in cash. 

 Summit Bancorp rose $3.63 to $38.13 on news it was was being purchased by FleetBoston Financial for $7 billion. FleetBoston's shares fell 50 cents to $38.50. Shares of Merrill Lynch traded higher, up $3.50 at $69.50 on rumors the financial services company might be a possible target for a takeover. 

 Energy issues were higher on persistent worries about higher oil prices and conflict in the Middle East. Exxon Mobil was up $2.31 at $91.44. Schlumberger rose $2.63 to $84.94. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 7-to-5 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.24 billion shares, compared to the 1.41 billion in the previous session. 

 The Russell 200 index fell 9.70 to 511.67. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.99 percent. Germany's DAX index was up 0.94 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 slipped 0.15 percent, and France's CAC-40 was up 1.32 percent. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010804dwa2010b4
 

 

 Stocks mixed in midday trading 

467 words
2 October 2000
17:20
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stock prices were mixed Monday amid bargain hunting after last week's big selloff. Concerns about corporate profits again limited gains. 

 In midday trading on Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 54.02 at 10,704.94. 

 Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Nasdaq composite index was down 8.26 at 3,664.56 after moving higher earlier in the day. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 7.41 at 1,443.92. 

 "There's not a lot going on right now, but the tone isn't that bad," said Rick Jandrain, chief investment officer for equity securities at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. "We've already discounted some of earnings surprises on the downside, so once we get into earnings reports this week, I don't think things are going to be too bad." 

 Investors were cautious as they awaited the release of third-quarter earnings reports later this month. They again sold off stocks of companies that warned of disappointing results. 

 Warnaco was down $1.56 to $2.44 - a loss of 39 percent - on published reports its profits would fall below Wall Street expectations. 

 The market fell sharply during September amid growing uneasiness about profits, not just for the third quarter, but also the coming quarters. Reaction to a profit warning from Apple Computer sent the Dow down 173 points and the Nasdaq 105 points on Friday. 

 But investors were looking for good buys Monday, and they bid Electronic Data Systems up $2.81 to $44.31 after a Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded the stock to "Recommended for Purchase" from "Market Outperformer." 

 Meat processor IBP was up $3.31 at $21.63 on news it was being acquired by the investment unit of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette for $2.4 billion in cash. 

 Shares of Merrill Lynch traded higher, up $2.31 at $68.31 on rumors the financial services company might be a possible target for a takeover. 

 A handful of technology issues also appeared to be rebounding. Cisco Systems rose $2.50 to $57.75, Lucent climbed $2.50 to $31.06 and Nortel Networks was up $2.75 at $62.88. 

 And energy issues were higher on persistent worries about higher oil prices and conflict in the Middle East. Exxon Mobil was up $1.31 at $90.44. Enron rose 6 cents to $87.69. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a narrow margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 424.89 million shares, compared to 440.43 million in the previous session. 

 The Russell 200 index fell 3.36 to 518.01. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010804dwa20105r
 

 

 Stocks higher in morning trading 

418 words
2 October 2000
16:17
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks opened higher Monday on bargain hunting that followed last week's big selloff. 

 In late morning trading on Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 41.62 at 10,692.54. 

 Broader stock indicators were also up. The Nasdaq composite index rose 7.90 to 3,680.72. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 6.16 at 1,442.67. 

 "There's not a lot going on right now, but the tone isn't that bad," said Rick Jandrain, chief investment officer for equity securities at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. "We've already discounted some of earnings surprises on the downside, so once we get into earnings reports this week, I don't think things are going to be too bad." 

 Still, investors were cautious as they awaited the release of third-quarter earnings reports later this month. They again sold off stocks of companies that warned of disappointing results. 

 Warnaco was down $1.81 to $2.19 - a loss of 45 percent - on published reports its profits would fall below Wall Street expectations. 

 The market fell sharply during September amid growing uneasiness about profits, not just for the third quarter, but also the coming quarters. Reaction to a profit warning from Apple Computer sent the Dow down 173 points and the Nasdaq 105 points on Friday. 

 But investors were looking for good buys Monday, and they bid Electronic Data Systems up $2.19 to $43.69 after a Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded the stock to "Recommended for Purchase" from "Market Outperformer." 

 Meat processor IBP was up $3.25 at $21.56 on news it was being acquired by the investment unit of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette for $2.4 billion in cash. 

 Shares of Merrill Lynch traded higher, up 94 cents at $66.94 on rumors the financial services company might be a possible target for a takeover. 

 Technology issues also appeared to be rebounding. Cisco Systems rose $3.50 to $58.75, Lucent climbed $1.06 to $29.63 and Nortel Networks was up $3 at $63.13. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a narrow margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 119.44 million shares, compared to 130.46 million in the previous session. 

 The Russell 200 index was down 2.15 at 519.22. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010804dwa200zx8
 

 

 Stocks end day mixed, pulled down by tech selling 

 By LISA SINGHANIA 
AP Business Writer
692 words
2 October 2000
22:44
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stock prices were mixed Monday as investors worried about corporate profits and the moderating economy once again unloaded technology issues. 

 Blue chips fared somewhat better, but were unable to rally the overall market because of ongoing fears that third-quarter results for many of Wall Street's highest profile and most expensive stocks will be disappointing. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 49.21 at 10,700.13. 

 Broader indicators were lower. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 103.92 to 3,568.90 after moving higher earlier in the day. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 0.28 at 1,436.23. 

 "The volatility is going to stay with us because valuations for stocks aren't cheap, especially in technology," said Rick Jandrain, chief investment officer for equity securities at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. "In 1999, the market was just dominated by technology and this year it's totally different. The non-tech part of the market is doing better." 

 The market fell sharply during September amid growing uneasiness about profits, not just for the third quarter, but also the coming quarters. 

 Investors are nervous because of increasing indications that the economy is slowing, the latest being an industry report Monday that suggested the nation's manufacturing activity contracted for the second straight month. 

 The market has fallen into a pattern of selling stocks that appear vulnerable or warn of poor performance. On Monday, that anxiety focused on technology issues, which have traded at especially high levels in recent years. 

 Chipmaker Intel fell $1.44 to $40.13, extending a decline triggered by a profit warning last month. Microsoft was down $1.13 to $59.13 and Web portal Yahoo! dropped $4.94 to $86.06. Computer maker Dell dropped $1.56 to $29.25. 

 But telecom equipment maker Lucent climbed $2.44 to $31 on Monday, as did rival Nortel Networks, which was up $2.25 at $62.38. 

 Gary Kaltbaum, a technical analyst at JWGenesis, said Lucent's popularity with investors Monday only reflects how cheap the stock has become. He believes tech issues, as a sector, remain depressed. 

 "When you have names like Intel and Dell and Microsoft under pressure, you can't expect much," he said. "I think it goes back to when market favorites and leaders are under pressure, the soldiers that fall behind them can't do so well." 

 Non-tech issues also lagged. 

 Boeing fell $4.69 to $58.44 after Lehman Brothers downgraded the stock from "outperform" to "neutral." 

 Xerox warned late Monday after trading that its earnings would be below expectations, an announcement likely to trigger volatility in its own stock Tuesday. 

 But there was some positive news. 

 Investors looking for good buys Monday bid Electronic Data Systems up $2.31 to $43.81 after a Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded the stock to "Recommended for Purchase" from "Market Outperformer." 

 Meat processor IBP rose $3.44 at $21.75 on news it was being acquired by the investment unit of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette for $2.4 billion in cash. 

 Shares of Merrill Lynch traded higher, up $3.50 at $69.50 on rumors the financial services company might be a possible target for a takeover. 

 Energy issues were higher on persistent worries about higher oil prices and conflict in the Middle East. Exxon Mobil was up $2.31 at $91.44. Schlumberger rose $2.63 to $84.94. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 7-to-5 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 770.96 million shares, compared to 786.10 million in the previous session. 

 The Russell 200 index fell 9.70 to 511.67. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.99 percent. Germany's DAX index was up 0.94 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 slipped 0.15 percent, and France's CAC-40 was up 1.32 percent. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010804dwa200zto
 

 

 Stocks end day mixed as tech issues continue to drag 

623 words
2 October 2000
21:36
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stock prices were mixed Monday as concerns about corporate profits and a moderating economy once again limited gains. 

 The market attempted to rebound earlier in the day but was dragged down as investors unloaded expensive Internet and software-related issues. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 49.21, or 0.5 percent, at 10,700.13. 

 Broader indicators were lower. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 103.92, or 2.8 percent, to 3,568.90 after moving higher earlier in the day. The Standard and Poor's 500 index was off 0.28 at 1,436.23. 

 "The volatility is going to stay with us because valuations for stocks aren't cheap, especially in technology," said Rick Jandrain, chief investment officer for equity securities at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. "In 1999, the market was just dominated by technology and this year it's totally different. The non-tech part of the market is doing better." 

 Investors were cautious as they awaited the release of third-quarter earnings reports later this month. They again sold off stocks of companies that warned of disappointing results. 

 Warnaco was down dlrs 1.56 to dlrs 2.44 - a 39 percent loss - on published reports its profits would miss Wall Street expectations. 

 The market fell sharply during September amid growing uneasiness about profits, not just for the third quarter, but also the coming quarters. Reaction to a profit warning from Apple Computer sent the Dow down 173 points and the Nasdaq 105 points on Friday. 

 Investors looking for good buys Monday bid Electronic Data Systems up dlrs 2.31 to dlrs 43.81 after a Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded the stock to "Recommended for Purchase" from "Market Outperformer." 

 Meat processor IBP was up dlrs 3.44 at dlrs 21.75 on news it was being acquired by the investment unit of Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette for dlrs 2.4 billion in cash. 

 Shares of Merrill Lynch traded higher, up dlrs 3.50 at dlrs 69.50 on rumors the financial services company might be a possible target for a takeover. 

 Investors took a mixed view of technology issues. 

 Telecom equipment maker Lucent climbed dlrs 2.44 to dlrs 31, as did rival Nortel Networks, which was up dlrs 1.88 at dlrs 62. 

 But chipmaker Intel fell dlrs 1.44 to dlrs 40.13; Microsoft was down dlrs 1.13 to dlrs 59.13 and Web portal Yahoo! dropped dlrs 4.94 to dlrs 86.06. Computer maker Dell dropped dlrs 1.56 to dlrs 29.25. 

 Lucent's Avaya spinoff also fared poorly on its debut: the office telephone equipment business dropped dlrs 2.75 to dlrs 20.19. 

 "When you have names like Intel and Dell and Microsoft under pressure, you can't expect much," said Gary Kaltbaum, a technical analyst at JWGenesis. "I think it goes back to when market favorites and leaders are under pressure, the soldiers that fall behind them can't do so well." 

 He said Lucent's popularity with investors Monday reflects only how cheap the stock has become. Less than a year ago, it traded at more than dlrs 80 per share. 

 Energy issues were higher on persistent worries about higher oil prices and conflict in the Middle East. Exxon Mobil was up dlrs 2 at dlrs 91.13. Schlumberger rose dlrs 2.38 to dlrs 84.69. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a narrow margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 770.96 million shares, compared to 786.10 million in the previous session. 

 The Russell 200 index of smaller companies fell 8.13 to 513.24. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010804dwa200z6t
 

 

 Stocks end day mixed as tech issues continue to drag 

644 words
2 October 2000
21:30
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stock prices were mixed Monday as concerns about corporate profits and a moderating economy once again limited gains. 

 The market attempted to rebound earlier in the day but was dragged down as investors unloaded expensive Internet and software-related issues. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 49.21 at 10,700.13, according to preliminary calculations. 

 Broader indicators were lower. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 103.80 to 3,569.02 after moving higher earlier in the day. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 0.30 at 1,436.21. 

 "The volatility is going to stay with us because valuations for stocks aren't cheap, especially in technology," said Rick Jandrain, chief investment officer for equity securities at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. "In 1999, the market was just dominated by technology and this year it's totally different. The non-tech part of the market is doing better." 

 Investors were cautious as they awaited the release of third-quarter earnings reports later this month. They again sold off stocks of companies that warned of disappointing results. 

 Warnaco was down $1.56 to $2.44 - a 39 percent loss - on published reports its profits would miss Wall Street expectations. 

 The market fell sharply during September amid growing uneasiness about profits, not just for the third quarter, but also the coming quarters. Reaction to a profit warning from Apple Computer sent the Dow down 173 points and the Nasdaq 105 points on Friday. 

 Investors looking for good buys Monday bid Electronic Data Systems up $2.31 to $43.81 after a Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded the stock to "Recommended for Purchase" from "Market Outperformer." 

 Meat processor IBP was up $3.44 at $21.75 on news it was being acquired by the investment unit of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette for $2.4 billion in cash. 

 Shares of Merrill Lynch traded higher, up $3.50 at $69.50 on rumors the financial services company might be a possible target for a takeover. 

 Investors took a mixed view of technology issues. 

 Telecom equipment maker Lucent climbed $2.44 to $31, as did rival Nortel Networks, which was up $1.88 at $62. 

 But chipmaker Intel fell $1.44 to $40.13; Microsoft was down $1.13 to $59.13 and Web portal Yahoo! dropped $4.94 to $86.06. Computer maker Dell dropped $1.56 to $29.25. 

 Lucent's Avaya spinoff also fared poorly on its debut: the office telephone equipment business dropped $2.75 to $20.19. 

 "When you have names like Intel and Dell and Microsoft under pressure, you can't expect much," said Gary Kaltbaum, a technical analyst at JWGenesis. "I think it goes back to when market favorites and leaders are under pressure, the soldiers that fall behind them can't do so well." 

 He said Lucent's popularity with investors Monday reflects only how cheap the stock has become. Less than a year ago, it traded at more than $80 per share. 

 Energy issues were higher on persistent worries about higher oil prices and conflict in the Middle East. Exxon Mobil was up $2 at $91.13. Schlumberger rose $2.38 to $84.69. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a narrow margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 770.96 million shares, compared to 786.10 million in the previous session. 

 The Russell 200 index fell 8.13 to 513.24. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.99 percent. Germany's DAX index was up 0.94 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 slipped 0.15 percent, and France's CAC-40 was up 1.32 percent. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010804dwa200z4t
 

 

 Stocks mixed in afternoon trading 

520 words
2 October 2000
20:23
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stock prices moved lower Monday as concerns about corporate profits and a moderating economy once again limited gains. 

 The market attempted to rebound earlier in the day but was dragged down as investors unloaded Internet and software-related issues. 

 In afternoon trading on Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 4.44 at 10,665.36. 

 Broader indicators were lower. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 102.00 to 3,570.82 after moving higher earlier in the day. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 4.09 at 1,432.42. 

 "There's not a lot going on right now, but the tone isn't that bad," said Rick Jandrain, chief investment officer for equity securities at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. "We've already discounted some of earnings surprises on the downside, so once we get into earnings reports this week, I don't think things are going to be too bad." 

 Investors were cautious as they awaited the release of third-quarter earnings reports later this month. They again sold off stocks of companies that warned of disappointing results. 

 Warnaco was down $1.56 to $2.44 - a loss of 40 percent - on published reports its profits would fall below Wall Street expectations. 

 The market fell sharply during September amid growing uneasiness about profits, not just for the third quarter, but also the coming quarters. Reaction to a profit warning from Apple Computer sent the Dow down 173 points and the Nasdaq 105 points on Friday. 

 Investors looking for good buys Monday bid Electronic Data Systems up $1.69 to $43.19 after a Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded the stock to "Recommended for Purchase" from "Market Outperformer." 

 Meat processor IBP was up $3.31 at $21.63 on news it was being acquired by the investment unit of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette for $2.4 billion in cash. 

 Shares of Merrill Lynch traded higher, up $1.81 at $67.81 on rumors the financial services company might be a possible target for a takeover. 

 Investors took a mixed view of technology issues. 

 Telecom equipment maker Lucent climbed $2.25 to $30.81, as did rival Nortel Networks, which was up $1.44 at $61.56. 

 But chipmaker Intel fell $1.25 to $40.31; Microsoft was down $2 to $58.31. And Web portal Yahoo! dropped $3.75 to $87.25. 

 Lucent's Avaya spinoff also fared poorly on its debut: the office telephone equipment business dropped $3.19 to $19.75. 

 Energy issues were higher on persistent worries about higher oil prices and conflict in the Middle East. Exxon Mobil was up $2 at $91.13. Schlumberger rose $2.38 to $84.69. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a narrow margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 770.96 million shares, compared to 786.10 million in the previous session. 

 The Russell 200 index fell 8.08 to 513.29. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010804dwa200ygw
 

 

 WAB 
 Analysts at odds over whether to pick Apple 

 Chelsea Emery 
BLOOMBERG NEWS; AP FILE PHOTO
1,296 words
1 October 2000
The Toronto Star
TOR
1
WB01
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 The Toronto Star 

 NEW YORK 

 APPLE Computer Inc.'s warning that fourth-quarter profits would be below forecasts disappointed analysts who rated the stock a "buy" - perhaps none more than Andrew Neff of Bear Stearns & Co. 

 Neff, who had been telling clients that Apple was his top pick among computer stocks, saw the news flash on his computer screen seconds after hanging up the phone with Compaq Computer Corp. chairman Ben Rosen, who announced his retirement this week. 

 The analyst immediately called Apple chief financial officer Fred Anderson, though he didn't learn any details beyond those in the news release. 

 "So I had to sit back and ask myself, `What is my investment thesis? What else does this affect? What's new?' " Neff said. The answer, Neff decided, was that sales growth was slowing throughout the industry. 

 Neff has followed Apple for 12 years and been ranked one of the best PC analysts in Institutional Investor magazine's survey of money managers for at least the past three years. He lowered his ratings on Apple, Dell Computer Corp. and Gateway Inc. to "neutral" from "buy.' 

 He cut Compaq and Hewlett-Packard Co. to "attractive" from "buy." 

 Across Wall Street, though, some of Neff's competitors reached different conclusions. 

 Analysts at Merrill Lynch & Co., Prudential Securities Inc. and PaineWebber Inc. told clients that Apple's slower sales were specific to the company, and some of them weren't shy about criticizing competitors who saw it otherwise. 

 "For people to downgrade the whole sector, either they're stupid, or they're looking for a horrible quarter where no one will go out and buy PCs, period," said Merrill's Steven Fortuna. 

 "Basic consumer and corporate demand is basically intact and we expect a good fourth quarter." 

 Apple shares plunged 52 per cent, their biggest one-day drop ever. About 132 million shares changed hands, making Apple the eighth most-active stock in a single day. The stock dropped $27.75 (U.S.) to $25.75, slashing about $9 billion from the company's market value. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial now expect the company to earn $1.70 a share for its fiscal year 2000. With Friday's decline, the stock sells for 15 times that profit forecast. Before the warning, analysts expected $1.85 a share, giving the stock a price-to-earnings ratio of 29. 

 Dell sank $2.44 to $30.94 while Compaq dropped 65 cents to $27.60 on the New York Stock Exchange and Gateway lost $7 to $47 in Big Board trading. 

 Fortuna said Compaq, Dell and Gateway shares are worth buying at lower prices. 

 "We are casting our vote that this problem is unique to Apple," agreed PaineWebber analyst Donald Young in a note to clients. He wasn't available for comment. 

 A rift in analyst opinion isn't unusual when an industry is in flux, some analysts said. 

 "You see splits like this when you have a market that's slowing into mid-teens growth," said Gillian Munson of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. "Analysts were really surprised and the more worked up you get, the more you find people who need to be overly optimistic or overly pessimistic." 

 Munson was on the phone with a client in her hotel room in Milan, Italy, during a marketing trip when she learned Apple had warned it would miss forecasts. She lowered her rating on Apple to "neutral" from "outperform" and dropped Gateway to "outperform" from "strong buy." 

 Apple's announcement confirms "the environment just isn't as strong as it once was" she said. "I expect roughly 7 per cent revenue growth in the industry in 2001 and that makes it a tough environment for price-to-earnings ratio expansion." 

 Munson had been predicting Apple shares would reach $70 in the next year. In her report Friday lowering her rating, she had no price forecast for the stock. 

 After the share decline, Apple sells for 14 times earnings in the fiscal year that ended yesterday. Gateway sells for 25 times earnings expected in calendar 2000. 

 Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., said after exchanges closed Thursday that earnings for the fourth quarter ended yesterday would be about 30 to 33 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by First Call had expected a profit of 45 cents. 

 Sales at Apple were slow in September, usually a lucrative time for PC makers as students buy new equipment before returning to school. 

 Sales of the new PowerMac G4 Cube also missed forecasts, the company said. The outlook is a setback for chief executive Steve Jobs, who has revived the company he helped start in 1976 with innovative products such as the colourful iMac. 

 Apple's Cube, unveiled in July, sells at retail starting at $2,699 (Canadian). The computer is a toaster-size translucent box that runs virtually silently, as it does not require a cooling fan, and is small enough to sit on a desk. 

 Besides the Cube, during the quarter Apple also unveiled an upgraded product line, including faster processors and greater storage in iMacs, laptops and the powerful twin-processor minitowers favoured by graphic artists and Web designers. 

 Apple's shortfall comes as other computer-related companies have warned of disappointing sales or earnings, sparking concern about a broader slowdown. 

 "There is the risk that this may be the tip of what is to come in the technology sector in general," said Chuck Hill, research director at First Call/Thomson Financial. "It's too early to tell. But the risk has gone up." 

 A week earlier, Intel Corp. said third-quarter sales would fall short of forecasts because of weaker demand in Europe. Shares of the world's largest computer-chip maker plummeted 22 per cent. 

 At least eight analysts cut their ratings on Apple shares. 

 "There's always a threshold and this was it," said Neff. "You have Intel warning about earnings, they're concerns about" rising oil prices and weakness in Europe's common currency, he said. "There's something going on and it's a recent and dramatic change." 

 Some analysts declined to take sides over whether Apple's announcement of slowing sales was endemic to the industry. 

 "This is a dramatic day and Apple stock is down a lot," said Morgan Stanley's Munson. 

 Munson, saying "people want to put the industry in one extreme or another," was neither very pessimistic nor very optimistic about sales of PCs. "I'm in the middle," she said. 

 Apple may have mismanaged the introduction of its new product line, said Michael Koidahl, president of Seattle-based Westwind Computing Inc., which sells PCs to corporations and consumers. 

 While Apple unveiled the Cube at a trade show on July 19, Koidahl said he obtained stock of the computers only in early September. 

 "The Cube didn't roll out as well as we would have liked," Koidahl said. "Our sales were below expectations in September." 

 He said customers delayed purchases while waiting for the new products, leading retailers to lower prices to make space for the new machines. 

 G2 Computers, a Newton, Pa.-based retailer, has seen strong demand for the Cube, manager Jitu Shah said, though some customers have complained that the computer is too fragile. 

 "One of the big problems is they complain of scratches on the computer," Shah said. 

 "They pay extra money for the looks of the computer, and there are some scratches." 

 He said the computer's curvy design makes the scratches unavoidable. 

 STEVE JOBS: Apple's chief executive, shown giving one of his trademark dazzling introductions in Paris last month, faces a setback in restoring the computer company's fortunes. 

Document tor0000020010813dwa1014v8
 

 

 WEEK AHEAD-Bear hug to keep S'pore shares from breaking free. 

 By Dan Sloan 
662 words
1 October 2000
04:05
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SINGAPORE, Oct 1 (Reuters) - Depressed Singapore stocks are set to follow U.S. markets down this week with analysts expecting tech shares to take another hit. 

 That might provide opportunity for some old economy shares, including banks and their merger and acquisition plans, to return to the fore, the analysts said. 

 "Short-term, there's not a lot of strength in anything. The tech sector probably is going to be the weakest," said Gregory Yap, research manager at OCBC Investment Research. 

 Contract manufacturers Omni Industries and NatSteel Electronics (NEL) felt the wrath of a profit warning by customer Apple Computer on Friday. 

 Both companies have substantial contracts with Apple. NEL closed at S$4.50 ($2.58), down 48 cents (27.5 U.S. cents) on Friday, while Omni fell 31 cents to S$2.75. The electronics index tumbled 2.52 percent to 152.14 points. 

 NEL, the world's sixth largest contract manufacturer, derives about 50 percent of its business from Apple. Yap said NEL's share price could fall to as low as S$3.75. 

 Reacting to Apple, the Nasdaq composite fell 2.79 percent to 3,672.82 points on Friday. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 1.60 percent to 10,650.92. The markets are down on the year about 9.7 percent and 7.4 percent, respectively. 

 "Weakness in the tech sector is based on the season of (U.S.) downgrades," said Salomon Smith Barney analyst Lim Jit Soon. 

 "This is likely to persist into the next quarter." 

 Despite a 1.63 percent gain on Friday, the key Straits Times Index finished September at 1,997.03 points, a decline of about seven percent on the month. 

 So far this year it has dived almost 20 percent and analysts said the STI's direction was likely to be driven by external factors. 

 "It may overshoot on the downside. It all depends on whether inflation rears its ugly head," Yap said, pegging a near-term bottom for the STI at 1,800 points. 

 WHERE ARE THE BULLS? 

 Daily trading volume has wallowed just above a paltry 200 million shares, as U.S. market and earning woes, oil prices and other sources of anxiety have sapped local interest. 

 Saloman's Lim said recent talk about a tie up between banking group DBS and Australia's Westpac Banking Corp and subsequent comments by DBS that it was actively exploring expansion opportunities would draw interest if a future match was appropriate. 

 Singapore Airlines, hit by concerns about fuel costs, is seen as oversold and likely to gain barring a renewed oil price rise. 

 SIA rose on Friday ahead of announcing a superjumbo A3XX aircraft order from Airbus Industrie. 

 Late on Friday, SIA said it had ordered 10 of the aircraft with options for 15 more in a deal worth $8.6 billion. Its shares finished up 30 cents at S$16.50. 

 Eyes will also be on Singapore Press Holdings, which is expected to announce on October 6 a record profit of more than S$400 million for the year ended August 31. But concerns about its earnings next year are likely to worry investors. 

 Competition from Today, a new newspaper from state-owned MediaCorp of Singapore that coincidentally launches on October 6, is expected to weigh on SPH's earnings. 

 Lim put fair value for SPH, widely held by funds because of its monopoly on newspaper publishing in Singapore, at S$25. 

 SPH shares ended on Friday at $26.10, up 50 cents. 

 Singapore brokerages, already facing earnings weakness from sharply lower turnover compared with the bull run of 1999, will see pressure from liberalisation of commissions from October 1. 

 Traders say lower rates may not be the panacea for current dull trading conditions. 

 Some estimates have earnings for local brokerages falling by 25 percent with the move. 

 ($1 = S$1.74). 

Document lba0000020010821dwa1061k6

Search Summary

 Text	((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))
 Date	10/01/2000 to 10/31/2000
 Source	All Sources
 Author	All Authors
 Company	All Companies
 Subject	Corporate/Industrial News
 Industry	All Industries
 Region	United States
 Language	English
 Results Found	237
 Timestamp	27 March 2018 10:23

 Page 2 of 2     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

